Once upon a time, there was a king, he ruled his country extremely well, the people were well fed and warm, settled in a peaceful career, lived a very happy life.

The king has three most beautiful princesses, the three princesses have had a magical power from birth, that is, when they cry, their tears will turn into iridescent diamonds.

One day, the king discovered that his age was advanced, his health was weak, but there was still no one to inherit the throne, the princesses had no one to take care of, so the king immediately urged people to find a husband. for princesses.

A month later, the king's castle was filled with princes, horsemen, and rich people from all over the world, all of them outstanding, handsome, handsome young men. ordinary. They confidently entered the castle waiting for the princess's choice.

At noon, the king led the three princesses into the palace, to welcome the arrival of guests from afar, the big princess sang a song, her clear voice was like sound of nature. The second princess danced a dance, her dance moves were gentle, beautiful and beautiful. As for the youngest princess, she gave a gentle smile and hid behind the king without coming out...

The king was awkward, explaining to everyone and hoping everyone would forgive him, since the little princess was born, she did not talk to anyone and was very afraid of strangers.

To win the hearts of the princesses, everyone takes turns showing off their outstanding talents. There were people there who drew pictures and wrote poems for the big princess, there were people who danced swords for the second princess, demonstrating their horse riding skills, only a few people offered precious treasures to the little princess.

The two big princesses were both very happy and gradually got their own choices, only the little princess remained silent hiding behind the king.

The eldest princess finally chose a prince, this outstandingly talented prince promised her: “I will conquer the whole world for her sake, on every city conquered, I will engrave her name.”

The second princess finally chooses a smart, rich guy, who promises her: "I will make a lot of money for her to build the most magnificent palace in the world. Inside, there will be a variety of beautiful treasures.”

And the little princess calmly looked at all the boys and silently shook her head.

Just as the king was about to announce the results, a young goatherd came out from the crowd, who went straight to the little princess, and whispered something in her ear. The little princess suddenly smiled brightly and without hesitation took the goatherd's arm, so the three princesses have found their favorite people.

Some time later, the King fell seriously ill, and immediately sent people to find the princesses.

He was surprised to find that the little princess and her husband were neatly dressed, but their clothes were full of patches. He was very curious and asked them why they lived so poor?, even though he knew that, the little princess only needed to shed a single tear to buy an entire clothing store.

The goatherd said, "Your Majesty, that's because I never let her cry."

The king immediately decided to give the throne to the goat herder.

Perhaps everyone has their own explanations for their happiness, until now there is no single answer, but only the goatherd understands what is precious.

The king asked the little princess: "What did the goatherd husband tell you that year?"

The little princess replied, "You whispered in my ear that, even if her tears could turn into the most precious diamond, I would also live a life of poverty, but definitely not let her cry. ".

The story borrows images of princesses to talk about the most precious thing in life, for many people happiness comes from money and fame, love is built on material possessions, but for public The youngest lord, a man who never lets himself cry even when tears can be turned into money is a man who can be a husband. The most precious thing in life is when people appreciate each other, that respect comes from a sincere heart.