Once upon a time there was a poor couple who lived in a small house by the forest. One day the wife saw a strange purple flower next to the house, so she begged her husband to pick the flower.

Cloud hair princess

Loving the husband's wife climbing over the wall to pick that flower. But the husband did not expect that this was the witch's garden. She caught her husband stealing, so she made a condition:

“If you give me your firstborn child, I will forgive you.

Too afraid of the witch's curse, the wife accepted her offer. That year the wife gave birth to a daughter and the couple had to give their first daughter to her.

As time goes by, the girl grows up, the most beautiful is her long golden hair. Fearing her escape, the witch locked her up in a very tall ancient tower. Every time she got home, the witch called out:

- Long hair! Long hair!

So the girl let her hair down for the witch to climb on. On the old tower alone every day, the long-haired girl sings to dispel the loneliness.

One day a prince riding a horse passed by suddenly heard her singing. Curious he approached and saw the strange fact of seeing the witch climbing up and down the tower with her long hair.

Waiting for her to disappear, he went to the tower and imitated the witch. When meeting the long-haired girl, the Prince and the cheerful singing girl became closer. And he promised the girl to come back the next day.

In the evening when the witch returned home, the girl honestly told the whole story to the witch. She angrily cut the girl's long hair tied to the window. Then she led the girl into the deep forest.

The next morning the prince came again and climbed the tower. He met the witch standing at the window and knew that he had been tricked. The witch laughed and cut her hair so that the prince fell from above. But fortunately he fell on the pile of long hair that she had cut. And the witch now realizes that she has no way to climb down and is locked in a high tower for the rest of her life.

At this time, the Prince ran to find the girl everywhere, suddenly she heard her singing in the depths of the forest. He happily spurred his horse into the forest and met the girl again.

He happily took her to meet his father and asked his father to marry the long-haired girl. Since then, they lived happily together. And she also found her poor parents in a faraway place after many years of separation.

The story is a sure statement for the truth that beauty will triumph over evil, the witch represents evil, in the end it has to pay a very heavy price. The princess symbolizes good, until the end, despite many difficulties and challenges, she still meets her happiness in life. Cause and effect, there will be retribution that is the message the story wants to convey.