Once upon a time in Japan, there lived an old woodcutter who was a woodcutter. One day, while in the forest, he discovered a bamboo burning bright yellow light. Curious, he approached to take a closer look. Inside the glowing bamboo was a very cute little girl. He and his wife had no children, so he took the child home and raised it with love. They named the baby Kaguya Hime. At that time, every time he went to the forest to cut firewood, gold rushed out. Soon he and his wife became rich.

Miraculously, in just 3 months, Kaguya Hime grew up very quickly and became a very beautiful young woman. Her beauty resounded throughout the country. Many young men traveled long distances to propose, but she refused. Only 5 people remained determined not to be discouraged. Kaguya Hime then gave her conditions and she was only willing to marry someone who could do what she wanted. She asked them to find her things that did not exist in this world, and so the five suitors failed to return.

At the same time, the king also heard about Kaguya Hime's beauty, so he decided to marry her and become his queen. But even he was rejected by her. The king sent soldiers to take her back to the palace when suddenly, she disappeared. The king suddenly realized that there was something particularly unusual about Kaguya Hime and he understood that was the reason for his failure.

Three years passed, Kaguya Hime became more and more beautiful. That spring, she began to melancholy every night of the full moon. She kept staring at the moon with tears streaming down her face. When the old woodcutter asked worriedly, she replied, "Actually, I came from the moon, because I made a mistake and was banished to the world. But now it's time for me to return. I will miss everyone here, that's why I'm sad." The old man was very sad, he did not want to leave his beloved daughter, so he went to the king to ask for advice. On a full moon night, the king sent soldiers to capture Kaguya Hime. Suddenly, the sky suddenly lit up. The messenger from the moon rode down on the clouds, wearing colorful clothes. At that time, the king's soldiers were stunned and lost their morale. The messenger carried Kaguya Hime onto a large palanquin and dressed her in a fur coat. And so she flew back to the moon, leaving nostalgia for many people.

The story affirms the warm feelings between people for each other. Praise the love of the husband and wife for the strange girl they do not know. At the same time affirming that it is impossible to get love by force without the consent of the other party. The princess is beautiful but still has to return to where she belongs.

Fairy tales about princesses make up most of the content of the folklore genre. Although diverse, the purpose is also towards the victory of the good, praising the perfect beauty as well as the affirmation for the eternal beauty.