Once upon a time, there was a poor boy, but he was very kind. He is always willing to help and take care of people and things around him. So every spring, the birds chirping and pulling together to nest, singing around the boy's house.

One day, a Fox came and caught a swallow at the boy's house. The young Swallow fell to the ground and broke its wings. The boy rushed out to save the bird. He cuddled the little Swallow, made it another nest and fed the Swallow. Thanks to the boy's dedicated care, the Swallow has recovered. Autumn comes, when looking up at the sky and seeing flocks of Swallows hurrying away to fight the cold in the South, the little Swallow is confused, half wanting to fly with the flock, half reluctantly leaving the boy.

Understanding En's heart, the boy lovingly said:

- Swallows fly with the flock lest the winter is very cold. In the warm spring, En returned to him.

After saying that, the boy threw the little Swallow into the sky. The Swallow is struggling to fly into the blue sky of autumn. It joins a large flock of Swallows that are on their way to the warm countries of the South. The little Swallow soon found joy among his friends, but he could never forget the boy.

Magical fairy tale - Fairy gourd

Beautiful spring has arrived. The little Swallow finds the boy's simple but warm house of love. He cried out in joy when he saw the boy sitting in the middle of the yard knitting baskets. The Swallow's wings swooped down and the Swallow dropped a gourd seed in front of the boy.

The boy buried the gourd seeds in the ground. Soon the gourd seeds germinated into a tree. The gourd tree grows as fast as it blows, flowers, and results. But strange yet, the gourd is huge, the whole family can only carry one, when it is cut out… Oh! Amazing! In a gourd full of gold and silver, treasures and delicious food!

The landowner in the area heard about it. He also wants to be given many gourds by the Swallow. He then tried to catch a baby Swallow and broke its wings. Then he pretended to feel sorry for the Swallow and brought it home to raise.

In the autumn, when he looked up at the sky and saw the first Swallows appear, he quickly threw the Swallow into the sky and said:

– Fly away, Swallow! Hurry up and get the gourd seeds here for me!

The poor Swallow flew away. The following spring it also returned with a gourd seed. The landowner was excited to sow and guard day and night. When the gourd was old, he told everyone to bring it back and chased them all out. He closed the door and cut the gourd alone. The gourd has just been cut, there is no gold or silver, only snakes. The centipede came out of the gourd and bit the evil greedy landlord.

The story is an affirmation of the absolute victory of good over evil. Even though times have changed, that truth is always true. Do not be greedy for money and do bad things, you will receive the consequences. Just live with an honest heart, we will automatically receive the reward we deserve.