Once upon a time in Muong village, there was a young scholar who was poor but studied very hard. During the day, he went to the forest to collect firewood and sell it to get money to buy rice and lamp oil. At night he worked hard reading until the neighbor's cock crows for the second time before going to sleep.

His house is just a hut, his property only has a knife and a stack of books. Befriend him only a purple toad, when he studies late at night, the toad jumps around at his feet, catching the buzzing mosquitoes. Seeing toads entwined with him, the Confucian man loved toads very much, every meal he never forgot to give toads a piece of rice. When he went to the forest to collect firewood, he often caught locusts, locusts, or mantises to bring back toads to eat more. Toads are taken care of so they grow bigger.

The Confucian was very bright, and in six years of sharpening the book lamp, he memorized almost all fifteen precious books of the sages. Seeing that he studied well, the villagers secretly wished that he would pass poinsettias in the future.

That year, the king opened the exam to select the status, and students from all over the world were busy in the competition. Seeing the Confucian enter the capital, purple toad asked to follow.

Toad guy

The next morning, he and the purple toad set off on the road. Wherever the boss goes, purple toad jumps one step at a time to keep up. Going forever, going forever, one day, the two teachers and students came to an abandoned tent at the edge of the deserted forest. The Confucianist saw in the tent a dead man, beside him was a bundle of books and a bundle of clothes. He guessed that this person was also a scholar who went to the examination hall, touched him, and saw that his pulse was still beating slightly, the Confucian tried to find a way to cure it. Seeing that he was enthusiastic, toad immediately whispered in his ear:

– Mr. I consider it a person who has not been faithful at all, if this class is not a fraud, it is also a traitor, why save it!

The Confucianist looked at the toad and said sternly:

- Encountering a person in need without being cured, is not a gentleman, even if it is ten times as hard, we cannot give up. If it hasn't reached the end of the day but is resurrected, wouldn't I have a better companion...

Seeing him say this, the purple toad said:

– If you have decided, you can save it, but for medicine, you don't have to run to find it anywhere. Toad has a reincarnation pearl here.

At this point, the toad spit out a pearl as clear as a diamond, shaped like a bird's egg. Toad said:

- You put this pearl in the nose of the dead person, the dead person will immediately come back to life.

The Confucianist took the pearl and did as he was told. Sure enough, after a while, he gradually regained consciousness. The Confucian man was so happy that he approached the stranger to help him sit up, ask his name, hometown and make friends. He opened the rice ball to invite you to eat and then went on the road together.

The two of them and purple toad traveled for three more days until they reached the capital. Arriving in the capital, Toad told him to take a walk and come back in the afternoon. The Confucian man and his friend sat at the restaurant and talked happily. A friend suddenly asked:

– One day, when I was traveling a long distance, I caught a bad cold, and my companions left me to lie down in the tent. If it weren't for him to save me, I would have turned into a ghost. I will repay your gratitude later. I don't know if you have any potion or magic that can save my life?

The Confucian smiled and took the pearl from his pocket and said honestly: