Once upon a time, in the Tran dynasty, in the Quang Thai era (1388-1398), there was a scholar born in Hoa Chau named Tu Thuc, holding the position of Tien Du district, in present-day Bac Ninh province.

Next to the district road is a famous temple, in front of the temple yard there is a strange peony root. Every year, when the flower blooms, people celebrate jubilantly, boys and girls from all over the world flock to each other to enjoy the flower festival.

In the year of the Snake, around February, a beautiful girl of about fifteen or sixteen years old came to the festival. She wears little makeup, but her face is very smooth and fresh.

In order to see the flowers closer, she put down a flower branch, unexpectedly, the peony was broken under her hand. The flower-keeper saw her and forced her to tie her to a tree. By late afternoon, no one had come to rescue her. Tu Thuc Nhan passed by, heard the story, felt compassion for the beauty, took off the sheep's shirt he was wearing and gave it to the temple for compensation. The girl who was released hesitated to thank Tu Thuc and then walked away and disappeared.

Fairy tale Tu Thuc ascended to the fairy

Since then, Tu Thuc has been loved and respected by the people as a virtuous mandarin. But Tu Thuc, who prefers wine bottles, poetry bags, and guitars to piles of papers in public roads, is absorbed in the beautiful scenery of the sky and clouds and neglects official duties. The superior sent a reprimand, saying that the old man who was born in the past was a high-ranking mandarin, could it be that he could not continue the family business but keep the position of tri district? Tu Thuc lamented: "Why can't I just drown myself in a place of fame and gain just because of a few rounds of rice! As equal to a small boat, I am freed from the circle. The young blue water will never help us"!

Then he returned the seal from the mandarin, retreated to the mountains in Tong Son district. Carrying a bottle of wine, a guitar, he traveled to all scenic places. Meeting a beautiful place, he stopped to drink wine and write poetry. His footprints and verses are marked in many places, such as Chich Tro mountain, Luc Van cave, Le river source, and Nga canal bank.

One day, he went to the gate of Than Phu, looked out at the sea, and saw a layer of five-colored clouds forming a lotus flower. He sat on the boat to the place, met many strange mountains. Tu Thuc worriedly told the rower:

“I have traveled throughout the southeast, knowing the whole region well, but have never heard of those wondrous mountains. Maybe this is the mountain that the fairy brought, or the mountain god moved, otherwise how could we never see it”?

Then he tied the boat and got ashore. After walking a few steps, standing in front of a thousand zhang high cliffs, Tu Thuc exhaled: "How can you cross without wings"? Then he took a pen and wrote a poem on the stone.

While engrossed in the scenery, he suddenly saw the opening of a cave door about a foot wide. He lifted his shirt once more. After walking a few steps, the cave door closed on its own, and he was plunged into darkness, not knowing where the exit was. He risked his life to feel the moss on the rock and walk, following a winding path, after a while the tunnel gradually widened. Out of the darkness, his eyes were overwhelmed by the bright light, astounded by the colorful clouds that covered the jeweled temples amidst the garden landscape full of exotic flowers and unusual fragrance.