Kim Dong and Ngoc Nu are about to form long lines and start dancing. Lady Wei took the initiative to invite the party. Giang Huong poured wine and brought it to the hands of the fairies.

The young fairy wearing silk smiled and said:

“Our bride today is like fat, not as thin as before. It is often said that the daughter of the upper world has no husband. I can no longer believe that!”

Lady Wei said:

“I heard that one can find the Fairy, but it's hard to find. Rare and miraculous encounters are always seen: such as traces of Bac Hau temple, Cao Duong mountain, footprints in Lac Pho, Giang Phi pearl hill, Loc Ngoc married Tien Su, Van Tieu met Thai Loan , Lan Huong and Truong Thac. If we make fun of this marriage, then the past will also turn out to be laughable!"

All the fairies laughed, except for the silk fairy who said in a less amused voice:

“Our young bride has become a good friend. But when we believe that a fairy married a layman down to earth, there will be people in Heaven who will mock us. The gods of the upper world must bear this fruit. I'm afraid we can't escape that reputation”!

Kim Tien then said:

“I lived in Thien Dinh, never set foot in a bare pool, but a bad person said that the heavens gave wine to King Chu, and the blue bird brought news to the Han king. We also have to bear the blasphemous words of the world. So how did the fairies avoid that slander? The bridegroom is here, we shouldn't argue with each other to upset him."

The fairies laughed again. When the sun turned to the west, the fairies parted and left. Left alone, Tu Thuc smiled and told Giang Huong:

“In the upper world, love also leads to marriage. That's why Zhi Nu married Niu Lang, Thuong Nguyen followed Phong Trac under the ceiling, Tang Nhu wrote the Thien Chu Tan, Quan Ngoc made Hoang Lang's poem. Circumstances vary from place to place, but love is the same everywhere. For thousands of years, it's always been like that. Now that all the fairies are gone, why is the air around us so cold and sad. Is it because love didn't come from you, or did you try to hold it back?"

Merry Christmas replied:

“The sisters have attained enlightenment, have their names in Hoang Dien, often go to Hong Mon, live in a pure place, play in the pure realm, and have no sexual attachments in their hearts. And I'm not clean from disappointment. Traces are still in Thuy Dien place, still indebted to anyone. Although my body is in the palace, my heart is still covered with dust. Don't compare me with other fairies!"

Tu Thuc says:

"If that's the case, I'm not too far away from you"!

They both burst out laughing.

Days followed each other in divine pleasure.

One morning, Tu Thuc saw the lotus flower blooming, the jade lake had changed to green, so it had been over a year.

The nights when the wind blew cold, the mornings were heavy with fog, the nights when the moon shone through the river, sometimes Tu Thuc could not close his eyes. A sadness filled his soul, waking him up.