One day, when he saw a boat in the distance, he pointed to Giang Huong:

"I came here from far away, the horizon is hazy, the waves are mixed, I don't know where my house is!"

A moment later he said:

“When I left, I still had my mother and friends down there. His bare heart has not been shaken, he wants to look back at his homeland. Please understand my heart, let me come back to visit home for a while. I don't know what you think?"

Giang Huong was sad and speechless. Tu Thu continued:

"Let me go away for a few days, meet my friends for a month, arrange housework, then I will come back to live with you forever until old age in Bach Van."

Crying Christmas says:

“I don't want to get married to prevent you from going back to your hometown. I'm just afraid that the world's life is too small, the sunlight is too short, you won't find the old garden in the old scene anymore!"

She informed her mother, Lady Wei sighed and said:

"I didn't expect that person to be so obstinate!"

Then buy a rattan car to take Tu Thuc away. Giang Huong gave her husband an envelope written on tissue paper, instructing:

"When you see the letter later, remember me"!

Then the two broke away tears. In the blink of an eye, Tu Thuc landed on the ground.

But all of that has completely changed. Houses and villagers are no longer old acquaintances. Only the rocks by the stream are still covered with green moss like before.

Asked the elders in the village if they knew a man named Tu Thuc, everyone said:

“When we were kids, we heard that our great-grandfather had that name. He's been lost in the mountains for eighty years. Since then, we have had three kings.”

Tu Thuc felt a deep sadness, wanted to return to the upper world, but the cloud car turned into a flying bird and flew away to heaven. He opened the envelope and read: "In the clouds of predestined marriage, our love is over! How to find Non Tien on the sea? It's hard for us to see each other again", only to know that Giang Huong sent him goodbyes.

After that, Tu Thuc put on a fur coat and a light hat and went alone to Hoanh Son mountain, never to return.

The story is about a world in the imagination of the people, a magical world with fairies, bronze pearls. At the same time implicitly asserting that it is impossible to claim to be able to live completely both ways, sometimes only being able to choose one of the two.

Once upon a time, there was a little boy, although he was six years old, he was still tiny, he was only as small as everyone's thumb. That's why everyone calls him the little boy.

The little boy's family was very poor, his parents had to work as hired laborers for the landlords, they had to work hard from early morning until late at night but still had no money to have a full life. Ti Hon saw her parents working hard, so she loved her very much and just wanted to work and earn money to help her parents.

One day, Ti Hon told his parents that he wanted to go herd buffaloes to help them. The tiny parents saw that he was too small, while all the buffalo cubs were many times larger than him, so the tiny parents did not let him take care of him. But with the persistent insistence of Tiny, his parents also agreed to let him go to try blankets.

Even though he is small, he is very good at herding buffalo, he does not let any buffalo eat the rice and corn of the people in the area, every child eats full and full. Everyone in the village praised Ti Hon. Landlords also really like Ti Hon herding buffaloes.