One day, the village field no longer had grass, so Ti Hon had to lead the buffalo up the mountain to feed the buffalo. While tending buffalo, Ti Hon saw a rose as big as a hat blooming on a tree branch. Tiny led the buffalo near that tree, then he climbed up to the buffalo's ear and then turned to the branch to climb into the middle of the flower. At the tiny flower, I was very surprised and delighted because inside the flower were three fairies who were also tiny like him, one girl in blue, one in yellow and the other in red. When the three fairies saw the little girl, they happily asked and brought delicious sweets for her to eat. Tiny didn't eat right away, but put the candies they put in her bag, finding it strange that the three fairies asked:

- Candies we give, why don't you eat it?

Tiny replied:

-I don't eat, I bring it home to my parents, my family is very poor, my parents work hard, I love my parents very much.

The three fairies said:

-Let's eat, we still have a lot of candies. After eating, we will help Ti Hon.
Once upon a time in Cao Binh district, there was a couple of fake age who still had no children. Seeing that the school was kind, Ngoc Hoang sent the fetus to be born as a child. Only later, when the husband died, the wife gave birth to a son. When he was just growing up, his mother died, he lived alone in the old hut, the whole inheritance was left by only a hammer blade of his father. People call him Thach Sanh.

One day, Ly Thong saw that Thach Sanh was kind and immediately made a brotherhood. At that time there were many miracles in the area where there were ogre, who often ate human flesh. That year, it was Ly Thong's turn to surrender himself, and his mother and son thought of a plan to trick Thach Sanh into dying instead. With his talent, Thach Sanh was able to kill Chan Tinh. Ly Thong brought the ogre's head to the king for a reward and was crowned Duke by the king.

The meaning of Thach Sanh fairy tale

The king had a princess of marriageable age, but unfortunately during the festival, the princess was carried away by an eagle. When Thach Sanh saw it, he used a bow and arrow to break the eagle's wings. Thach Sanh traced the blood and found its whereabouts.

From the day the princess disappeared, the king was extremely sad. The king sent Ly Thong to find him, promising to marry the princess and pass the throne to him. Ly Thong asked Thach Sanh to save the princess and then fill the cave door. In the cave, Thach Sanh saved the crown prince and was rewarded with a magic lute by King Thuy Te.

The spirit of the antler and the eagle appeared to take revenge on Thach Sanh, causing him to be locked in prison.

Since the princess returned, she did not speak, did not smile. No one can cure it. Only when listening to Thach Sanh's guitar, the princess suddenly laughed and said happily. The king was surprised, called Thach Sanh, he told all the facts. Understanding that the king did not kill Ly Thong and his mother, but on the way home, they were struck by lightning and turned into scarab beetles. Thach Sanh married the princess. Seeing this, the vassal countries were angry and sent their troops to fight. Thach Sanh took the harp, the enemy begged for goods. Unable to finish the pot of rice, the soldiers dragged each other back to the country. Later, Thach Sanh ascended the throne.

Thach Sanh is a typical work written about the image of a brave man, carrying in himself extraordinary power, except for the destruction of violence. Has a noble heart, is a typical character for the good side. The work expresses our people's desire to conquer evil and at the same time shows the noble belief in the final victory of beauty. Those who do bad things will receive the punishment they deserve.