Killing the python, the young man was so thirsty that he ran around the forest looking for a stream to quench his thirst, then because he was so tired, he went to the bank of the stream and fell asleep for a day and a night.

At noon the next day, an officer in charge of guarding this area entered the temple to detect movement. He was very surprised to see the python lying in a pool of blood, and the girl did not know which way had disappeared. But thinking of the king's promise, he immediately grabbed the head of the snake and rode the horse back to the capital to receive the reward. Seeing the monster's head, the king was overjoyed. King asked:

"Who killed the python?" The official replied: - "Your Majesty is this lowly person". The king praised for a long time, then issued a decree to only make him a duke, and then gave the princess in marriage as promised.

The wedding was very organized. But in the middle of the wedding day, while the king and mandarins were gathered, suddenly a stranger asked to come in for an audience. The king commanded to enter. The stranger was the young man who killed the python. King asked:

- What are you doing here at home?

The young man replied:

"Your Majesty, I only ask your permission to let me recover a piece of the broken sword that is still in the head of the snake!"

The king was amazed:

"Ah, so it wasn't my concubine who killed the snake?"

The king looked at his wife. Pho Ma's face had turned pale, but still tried to argue:

"He's a scoundrel who dares to come here to claim it!"

The king immediately ordered the postponement of the wedding ceremony and then the bodyguards cut the head of the snake to find the sword fragment. A moment later, the bodyguard brought the piece of steel to offer, and when it was assembled with the young man's sword, it was as good as printed. The king shouted:

- It turned out that the concubine had deceived me and everyone.

Immediately the king ordered to take off his duke's yellow card and put it on the young man . Then the king took him to sit in the seat of the concubine, and ordered the wedding ceremony to continue as before. Meanwhile, the manager was taken to the court.

The story is built on the familiar motif of fairy tales. The python symbolizes natural evil, the boy symbolizes good. Every fairy tale is a battle between two sides. The above work praises the bravery and intelligence of the brave man, and at the same time strongly criticizes the official who robbed others, advising us to live honestly, not lying.