In another village, there was a woman who worked very hard. From dawn, when the Mo Lang bird sang, she saw her leaving the village to go to the fields. She worked hard until the North Star glittered in the sky before returning to the village.

One day, while working in the fields, she suddenly felt dizzy, uncomfortable, and her throat was dry and burning like fire. She rushed to the hut in the middle of the field, lifted the pipe to drink, but found that there was no water in the pipe. Thirst tormented her more and more. She glanced around to find water to drink, and suddenly saw that in the distance from the ravine there was a dripping water. She was overjoyed and rushed over. It was a mountain like a big man, holding antlers looking at the sky. From the top of the human figure's head flowed clear, cool drops of water. She tilted her head and took three sips, and found her thirst quenched immediately, her throat still lingering on the sweet aroma of the strange water.

Three brave boys

From that day on, she noticed that her body was different and her belly was getting bigger and bigger. She conceived.

But it's been nine months and ten days and she still hasn't given birth. One year, then two years, the birthday has not come yet. It was not until the third year, on a day when the moon and sun met (eclipse) that gave off a soft golden light, that the mother went into labor. She gave birth to three plump, beautiful and identical sons.

As the days passed, the three children grew up. Since then, there have been three more healthy boys in the mountains. Their arms are as hard as iron that can break a tree as big as a blade of grass. Their feet ran as fast as the wind, a leap across a forest. Their eyes are bright, seeing farther than the eagle's eyes.

Seeing that the children had grown up, one day the mother said to them:

- My world is still very wide. Children, let's go and do business among themselves. From time to time, the children come to visit their mother!

The three boys obeyed, said goodbye to their mother and left.

The youngest brother followed the direction of the rising sun. The road is getting lower and lower every day and soon the plain is wide, the sea is vast and waves appear. The youngest brother liked this beautiful land very much and chose it as his residence. Since then, the day he bathed in clear blue water, lying on the fine sand at night, his skin gradually changed, as white as powder. People call him Ngoc.

The second brother followed the direction of the setting sun. The ground under his feet is getting higher and higher, dense forests appear and majestic mountains rise as if to greet him. Meeting a stream of water flowing iridescent like bronze, he took off his shirt and waded across to the other side. That strange stream of water made the second brother, when stepping up from the water, completely changed his skin color, becoming dark like the color of water. Seeing that the land was fertile, he stopped and set up a business camp. From then on, people called him Leo.

The eldest brother stayed in the homeland. He built the highest communal house in the sky, the roof curved to the clouds, the pillars were close like a forest tree. He lived there, looking after the mountains and forests for the stream to play the guitar, for the flowers to dance, for the animals and for the wind to sing...