But suddenly one day, a snake appeared out of nowhere, its body as big as a mountain range. It has wings to soar into the sky, and fins to dive deep into the water. But the most dangerous were the three wish-fulfilling jewels of the heavenly family that the Serpent had stolen, brought back, and hid in a round bag, worn in its right armpit. The first pearl is blue, when raised, immediately a storm arose, the wind howled wildly, blowing away the whole forest one by one. The second pearl is pale white, when holding it, the waves immediately surged, sweeping away dozens of villages. The third pearl is bright red, when it is thrown, the smoke of the forest fire rises up, burning everything. Serpent uses these three wish gems to wreak havoc in all areas it passes through.

One day, the Serpent came to the homeland of the three boys. Wherever it goes, the trees are tilted, the wind howls, and the smoke and clouds fly there. The eldest brother saw something strange, hurriedly came out from the communal house, holding a shield with copper rattles in one hand and a sharp knife in the other hand, as sharp as water.

Seeing the heroic look of the eldest brother, the Serpent also had a will. He reached into his pocket, pulled out the blue pearl, and immediately a storm arose, the trees uprooted, and the rocks of the mountains flew. Seeing the Serpent suddenly act majestically, destroy the village in his hometown, the eldest brother got angry and rushed in front of it, swinging his shield. The shield whirled and turned into a strong wind, driving away the Serpent's storm. After half a day of fierce fighting, the exhausted Serpent had to immediately collect the green gem. It let out an angry roar and lifted the pale white jewel. Immediately a pool of water rushed in, covering the mountains and forests. Boars, weasel, snakes floating on the water. Faced with the tremendous force of the flood, the eldest brother found no way to resist. He rushed to the highest mountain, grabbed the dry tree, gathered the dead leaves, piled it in a large pile, lit it on fire. The day before, when they parted for the road, the three brothers made a promise to each other that when there was a war or in danger, the eldest brother would use the fire light on the high mountain to signal to call the children back, one light is the sign of the fire. call the youngest, two tops are called the second.

Seeing a fire in his mother's hometown burning, Ngoc at first It's the sunlight that shines, ignore it. But the light of the fire was getting bigger and bigger, the flame swaying like a beckoning call. Knowing that the fire of the eldest brother called him, Ngoc immediately ran as if he were flying back to his hometown.

Arriving in the old village, seeing the mountains and forests were desolate and shabby, Ngoc was extremely angry, sitting by the stream day and night thinking of ways to get rid of the snake.

One morning, Ngoc said goodbye to his eldest brother and went straight to the demon's lair. Seeing the white young man, the Serpent snarled and shouted:

- Oh, that white rabbit! Did you bring the skin here for me to peel?

The brave Ngoc shouted in his face:

- I came to you to ask for guilt. The god of water in my hometown, I can still cure your stinky buffalo foot puddle!

Sagittarius is very angry. He immediately pulled out the pale white pearl. Immediately the waves were thousands, the whole country appeared white and white in an area. As fast as lightning, Ngoc pulled his hand hard, stomping his feet on the ground. Immediately, from the ground emerged a long wall. The layer of solid earth like steel rose up forever, tightly encircling the water tank and then gradually closing. The ferocious current tried to break the wall to overflow, but could not. The water is getting dry day by day. The weak Serpent quickly gathered the white orb and unfolded the bright red gem. Immediately smoke rose into the sky, forest fire blazed, green trees burned into coals. The spring water was boiling. The youngest brother could not cure the terrible fire, had to run to the sea.