a roll up, burning in the sky. Quickly, the second brother immediately poured the magic water pipe on the ground. Small streams of water, instantly turning into hundreds of thousands of dragons with cold water, meandering, glistening, clinging to the pool of fire. The fire fades and then goes out.

Seeing the loss of all three miracles, the Snake Star frantically tried to escape to the pool. But the young Ngoc was holding a sword to block the road. Scared snake quickly turned and ran up the mountain. But the young Leo was waiting there with his javelin. Secretly, the Serpent tried to run away to the sky, but the eldest brother jumped up, swinging a knife as sharp as liquid water to hit him. The serpent screamed and struggled to move the forest, shaking the ground. Finally exhausted, it fell dead, turning into the jagged, cracked, bumpy, barren, death-colored Roc Ron Mountains.

Since then, the mountains and forests of the Central Highlands have returned to the peaceful scene of the past. The fields are full of rice, the fields are full of potatoes, the rivers are full of fish, the banks of streams show off their red flowers. The three brave men parted again, one going to the east, the other to the west to do business. The eldest brother stayed in the forest, building a communal house taller than before to protect his motherland. Every year, the youngest brother in the sea carries salt for the two brothers, the second brother carries the gong and blankets for the eldest brother. And the eldest brother shared with the children precious wood, honey, wild meat, and fragrant sticky rice.

Up to now, the Central Highlands people still have a tradition that: the eldest brother who has the ability to dance shields against the wind is the Central Highlands people. Ngoc, the youngest brother who lives near the river near the lake, so he is proficient in building dikes to prevent water, is Vietnamese. As for the second brother - Leo, who lives in a hot country, has Laos wind, is prone to fires, so he has the ability to fight fire, that's Lao. The three brothers were the children of one mother.

The story tells about the heroes who bravely defended their homeland, expressing the gratitude of the people here for those who have built and expanded the country. The construction journey is extremely arduous, the author also wants to teach the next generation about gratitude, courage, solidarity to protect their homeland. 
Once upon a time, there was a giant of the Khoa Phu family, seeing the sun rise in the East every day and then set in the West, the next morning he saw the sun rise in the East, and was very surprised. where is the sun hiding? Faculty of Medicine likes the light, cannot stand the darkness, so he thinks: "We must chase and make the sun stand still in the air so that the landscape is always bright, no longer dividing day and night".