Once upon a time, there was a giant of the Khoa Phu family, seeing the sun rise in the East every day and then set in the West, the next morning he saw the sun rise in the East, and was very surprised. where is the sun hiding? Faculty of Medicine likes the light, cannot stand the darkness, so he thinks: "We must chase and make the sun stand still in the air so that the landscape is always bright, no longer dividing day and night".

Khoa Phu took long steps, walking like flying towards the vast field, chasing the sun that was leaning to the west. In the blink of an eye, the giant had already crossed several thousand miles.

Just like that, Phu Khoa chased the sun to the area of ​​​​Ngoc Coc, where the sun set. The sun had not yet set when long-legged Phu Khoa ran quickly to the place. A red ball of fire appeared in front of her eyes. Khoa Phu's whole body was immersed in the extremely dazzling light of the sun. The Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology was overjoyed, raising its huge arms to grab the burning fireball.

Burned by the sun, tired again after running for more than half a day. Khoa Phu temporarily stopped chasing the sun, crouched down and drank all the water from the Hoang and Vi rivers. The Faculty of Medicine gulped, and in a moment, both of the other two great rivers had dried up, but thirst was still quenched. Khoa Phu immediately ran to the north, intending to drink water at Han Hai lake north of Nhan Mon Son, thousands of miles long and horizontal. Unfortunately, before he arrived, Khoa Phu died of thirst along the way.

The Faculty of Medicine fell like a falling mountain. The ground shook violently. By that time the sun had begun to sink into the abyss, the last few rays of golden light shone on Gynecology's face. Gynecologist angrily watched the sun slowly sink to the west, then let out a long sigh, threw the stick in her hand to the front, closed her eyes, and passed out.

The next morning, the sun rose again in the east, shining its light all over the earth. As for Phu Khoa's body in the vast field last night, it has turned into a high mountain range. In the north of the mountain range, there is a peach forest, luxuriant green leaves, full of sweet fruits. That's what Gynecology's staff turned into. The delicious fruits of the peach forest later helped light-seekers overcome their thirst, making their spirits much more refreshing, eager to go to the finish line, determined not to give up half. some.

The story embodies the indomitable and resilient spirit of the Chinese people, embodying the grand thinking that has become a tradition of this country. At the same time, it shows the desire to win the drought of the people here, determined not to surrender to the ferocious nature.

Fairy tales are written about the majority of heroes to express the dream of a hero protecting the vulnerable people, and at the same time teaching the next generation about bravery, indomitableness and resilience.