Once upon a time, there was a giant of the Khoa Phu family, seeing the sun rise in the East every day and then set in the West, the next morning he saw the sun rise in the East, and was very surprised. where is the sun hiding? Faculty of Medicine likes the light, cannot stand the darkness, so he thinks: "We must chase and make the sun stand still in the air so that the landscape is always bright, no longer dividing day and night".

Khoa Phu took long steps, walking like flying towards the vast field, chasing the sun that was leaning to the west. In the blink of an eye, the giant had already crossed several thousand miles.

Once upon a time, when creating the first Mother in the world, God worked hard for six days straight, forgot to eat and sleep, but still didn't finish the job. Seeing that, a god asked: "Why did you die? too much time for this creature?”

God replied, “You see. This is an extremely complex creation of more than two hundred interchangeable and extremely durable parts, but it is not inanimate stone. This creature can live on water and baby leftovers, but is strong enough to hold many children in the arms at once. Its kiss can heal any wound, from a scratch on a knee to a broken heart. Also, I intend to give this thing six pairs of hands.”

The god was surprised: “Six pairs of hands? Unbelievable!". God replied, "That's a little bit. If it has three eyes, it's not enough." “Then you will violate the standards of humanity that you set before yourself,” said the god.

God nodded and sighed, "That's right. This creature is my favorite thing in what I have created, so I give all my favor to it. It had a pair of eyes that could see through closed doors and knew what the children were doing. The second eyes at the back of the neck to see everything that everyone thought was unknowable. The third eyes rest on the forehead to see through the intestines of the lost children. And these eyes will tell those children that their Mother always understands, loves and is ready to forgive all their mistakes, even though she never said it."

The god touched the creature that God was working to give birth to and exclaimed: "Why is it so soft?". God replied, "So you don't know. This very tough creatures. You cannot imagine the suffering this creature will endure and the work it must accomplish in life.”

The god seemed to have discovered something, so he reached out and touched the cheek of the Mother being created by God, “Oh, sir. Looks like you dropped something here." "Not. Those are tears,” God sighed.

"Tears for what, sir?" asked the god.

“To express joy, sadness, disappointment, pain, loneliness, and even pride—things every mother goes through.”

The story is about the birth of a mother, it can be seen that they are the ones who have to work the most, have to live the most suffering but have the greatest love. Mothers are willing to sacrifice everything for their children. They have great strength in them, but they also have hearts that can feel the pain and joy of their children. Mother is the most beautiful pearl that nature has bestowed on man.
