A mother is sitting with her baby. She was very sad because she was worried that her son would die. The blue baby had already closed his eyes and was sobbing. Sometimes the baby wails very loudly, so the mother crouched close to the child, her heart shrinking.

There was a knock at the door, and a poor old man covered in a blanket that usually put a horse on came in. It was freezing cold, not to mention there is no warmer than that blanket. The outside is all the color of ice and snow. The wind blew like a slap in the face.

The old man shivered. When the baby fell asleep, the mother warmed up a beer in the oven. The old man sat down and lulled the baby. The mother sat in a chair near the old man, looked at the weakly held baby still breathing, and raised a hand. She asked:

- Is there anything wrong? God wouldn't take him away, would he?

The old man, no one but Death himself, shook his head in confusion. The mother dropped her head to her chest, tears streaming down her cheeks. It had been three days and three nights, and without sleep, her head felt heavy.

She fell asleep, only for a moment, then suddenly shivering from the cold, she woke up again.

- What is this ? ' she cried, looking around. The old man and her son also disappeared. The old man took her son away. The pendulum clock was still ticking in the corner.

Coc! A lead pendulum fell to the ground. Then the clock stopped.

The poor mother ran outside, calling her child.

Outside, there was an old woman in a black dress, sitting among the snow, and said to her mother:

“I see Death has entered your house. The old man took her daughter and ran away. He ran faster than the wind and never brought back the people he stole.

The mother pleads:

- Please show me the way you go. Just show me the way, I'll catch up.

The old lady replied:

- Know! But before I show you the way, you must sing to me all the songs you sang to your son. So far, I have heard a lot and I love to hear you sing. I am the god of the Night; I have seen your tears flow when you sing.

The mother pleads:

– I would like to sing all, sing all, then let me catch up with Death, reclaim my child.

But the Night God kept silent. So the mother had to wriggle her hands, shed tears, and sing. Sobs overwhelm the lyrics of the songs.

After listening to the song, the Night God said:

– Turn right and enter the dark pine forest. I saw Death take your baby in there.

Arriving in the middle of the forest, meeting a fork in the road, the mother wondered which way to turn. There was a bush with no flowers or leaves; It's the middle of winter, so the ice clings and hangs all over the branches.

"Did you see Death bring my baby over here?"

The thorn bush replied: