- Don't touch the flowers. Just stand here. Surely Death will return soon. Don't let God pull this flower. Threaten that she will pull out all the plants around here, Death will be afraid, because God is responsible before God for the plants here; Without His command no one is to uproot a tree.

At that moment, a cold wind arose. The mother felt that Death had come.

God asked:

"How can you find your way here, and come before me?"

- I'm the mother!

Death stretched out his long hand toward the slender flowering tree, but the mother wrapped her arms around the tree, protecting it with all her might, so that not a single leaf would be crushed. Death breathed into the mother's hand; she felt colder than the north wind, which made her hands fall.

"You can't stand me," Death threatened.

The mother replied:

But there is also God.

Death said:

I also only obey God's orders. I watch over His garden. I bring plants and flowers here only to replant them in the garden of Heaven, but everything that happens there, how the flowers and plants grow, I cannot tell you.

The mother sobbed and begged:

- Pretend for me.

At the same time, each of her hands grabbed a nearby flower and cried out:

– If I am desperate, I will pull all the flowers here.

Death said:

- Don't touch it. You say you are suffering and you want to make another mother suffer?

Another mother? The grief-stricken mother let go of two flowers.

Death added:

- These are your eyes. Seeing them shining brightly on the bottom of the lake I picked them up. I know those are your eyes. Take it back. Her eyes were much brighter than before. Take a look at the nearby well, and I'll tell you the names of the two flowers you were about to pluck. You will see clearly both their past and future lives, see very clearly all that you are about to destroy.

The mother looked down into the well. She saw from one of the two flowers a light of joy and happiness, and the life of the other flower was only full of misery, misery, poverty and misery.

Death said:

This flower life, as well as that flower life, are all by the will of God.

Mother says:

- Which flower is the flower of misfortune, which is the flower of happiness?

Death replied:

– I cannot reveal the divine plan. But you need to know that one of the two flowers is the flower of the pupil, the image of its future.
The mother screams:

– Which of the two flowers is my child's flower? Please tell me. If his life will be painful in the future, please take him away, bring him to Heaven immediately! Please forget my tears, forget the words I prayed, forget the words I said and the things I did!

Then she wriggled her hands, knelt down, and begged:

- I beg God not to listen to me if I invoke words that are contrary to His will. Please don't listen to me.

Then she dropped her head to her chest.

So Death took the baby to the strange land that the mother talked about earlier

The story wants to praise the noble sacrifice of a mother for her children, all that a mother has is for her children. Even if it's youth, light or life. A mother will be willing to declare war on even death to protect her child. They have a power that even gods cannot imagine.
