God asked:

"How can you find your way here, and come before me?"

- I'm the mother!

Death stretched out his long hand toward the slender flowering tree, but the mother wrapped her arms around the tree, protecting it with all her might, so that not a single leaf would be crushed. Death breathed into the mother's hand; she felt colder than the north wind, which made her hands fall.

"You can't stand me," Death threatened.

The mother replied:

But there is also God.

Death said:

I also only obey God's orders. I watch over His garden. I bring plants and flowers here only to replant them in the garden of Heaven, but everything that happens there, how the flowers and plants grow, I cannot tell you.

The mother sobbed and begged:

- Pretend for me.

At the same time, each of her hands grabbed a nearby flower and cried out:

– If I am desperate, I will pull all the flowers here.

Once upon a time, a lord in a certain country promulgated a law that said, “Send useless old people to the mountains because they are no longer useful.” There was a young man in a certain village whose mother was old. The young man tried to fight the law, but his mother advised him to accept it so as not to be punished.

The young man carried his mother up the mountain while crying in pain, while the mother broke tree branches along the way. The boy asked why his mother did this, and she replied, "I mark the way so that I can go home without getting lost".

Before the love that she had for her son who was about to abandon her like that made the young man decide not to leave her anymore, he took her home and hid it on the floor.

One day, the lord of a neighboring country challenged the lord of the land in which the young man lived, and threatened to attack if he did not receive a satisfactory answer. Since the country's poverty is still ongoing, there will be no way to fight back if an attack occurs. So the lord ordered a search for someone in the land who could solve the riddle. The young man told about that challenge to his mother who lived on the floor, and she immediately had a simple answer. The young man immediately went to tell the lord, and was able to stop the attack from the neighboring country.

The lord rejoiced and gave him whatever he wanted. The young man immediately said, "Please abolish the law of throwing away the old, for this wisdom I have thanks to my old mother I have been hiding under my floor for so long!" Hearing this, he changed his mind and withdrew the law.

This is a Japanese fairy tale, about a custom that has existed since ancient times. Thereby criticizing strongly the idea of ​​abandoning the elderly because they are no longer valuable. At the same time, it also reminds us, everything we have today is because of the sacrifice given to us by our mother, we need to be grateful and return it.