Once upon a time, there was a mother and daughter who lived alone in a small house. Loving the son who lost his father when he was young, the mother worked hard every day to be able to afford her daily life. She devoted all her love and sacrifice to her son.

Overly loved by his mother, the boy broke out or cried and cried. He often hangs out with naughty children who disturb the village or play pranks that make others angry. There was a time when he was naughty, was scolded by his mother a few sentences, he sulked his mother, ran away from home.

Waiting for a long time to not see the child back, the mother searched for her child day after day and still did not see any news. And the boy was still wandering around, and playing crazy games without being controlled by anyone anymore. Whoever gave him something to eat, if he didn't give it, he played a thief.

Seeing the free life, the boy sometimes thinks: “If only I didn't have my mother, how much I would love it! I will have fun without being controlled by anyone anymore!”
One day, wandering on the road, he saw a flock of ducks laying eggs in the tent. He immediately took the brick that had broken many eggs, considering it an interesting pastime.

The owner of the duck tent was sleeping, and when he heard the duck's cry, he woke up. He peered out through the gap in the door and saw the boy throwing eggs. Enraged, he grabbed a very large stick and ran out to chase the boy. The boy panicked and ran for his life, not daring to look back.

After running quite a distance, when he was sure that the owner of the duck hut was no longer chasing, the boy collapsed on the side of the road, panting. Just tired and hungry, at this time he remembered his mother at home: "Going home, only mother is the one who loves and cares for and protects me the most."

Finally, after many days of traveling, the boy returned to his home. The scene is still there, but the mother is nowhere to be seen, except that there is a strange tree growing right in front of the house. The boy called out:

- Mom, where are you? I'm back here!

He kept calling, but got no answer. Disappointed, he sat down by the tree and burst into tears. Suddenly the green tree trembled, blossoming and bearing fruit quickly. In a moment, the skin is smooth and iridescent green.

The third fruit continued to fall into his hand. He hurriedly turned around the ripe fruit to soften, and saw a small crack in the fruit, a stream of white milk gushing out. He raised his mouth to drink that milk, sweet and fragrant like mother's milk. After drinking, the boy had a feeling that was very familiar, strangely refreshing.

The boy did not know, because he missed him, his mother sat on the porch crying for many days. When she was exhausted, she fell down and turned into a green tree growing up in front of the door, still waiting for him to return every day.

The boy hugs the tree. The bark is rough like a mother's diligent hand, the leaves are green on one side, and red on the other like a mother's eyes are crying dry waiting for her child. He heard in his ears the rustling of leaves:

"Eat the fruit three times to know the fruit is delicious

Will you grow up or your mother's heart?"

It's the mother's voice! The little boy burst into tears. The green tree trembled again, spreading its canopy to hug the boy, like a loving mother, patting her children.

As time went by, the nostalgia for her mother gradually eased. The boy is now more mature, no longer doing things that make others angry and hateful. He learned to appreciate the meaning and value of life more.

He brought those sweet and fragrant fruits to share with his friends and told them the story of the wonderful mother, about the mistakes he made. Everyone pouted and promised themselves to try harder so as not to upset their mother.

There are things that only when lost do you know its value. After leaving my mother, I know that no one loves me like my mother, and no one is as good as my mother. The story advises us to understand the mother's heart, to be grateful, not to do things that make her sad.