In the past, there were Tan and Lang who were two siblings, the body shape and face were exactly the same, the family members were also confused. Their father was the tallest man in the region who was once summoned by King Hung to Phong Chau and named him Cao. Since then the family took the surname "Cao".

When the two brothers were growing up, their parents died. The two are infatuated with each other without leaving half a step. Before his father died, he entrusted Tan to a Taoist named Luu, Lang refused to stay at home alone and tried to ask to study with him. Taoist Liu has a daughter of the same age as them.

To know who is me and who is me, one day a girl surnamed Liu devised a trick. While they were hungry, she only served them a bowl of porridge with a pair of chopsticks. Standing behind the wall, she saw this person giving porridge to the other person to eat, so she knew it was the brother. Tan and the girl met and fell in love. Taoist Luu willingly gave his son to Tan. After the wedding, the couple moved to a new house, with Lang living together.

Since getting married, Tan has not cuddled me like before. Lang thought he was "falling in love with his wife and forgetting me" in his depressed heart.

One day Lang and Tan went up to the countryside until dark to return. Lang first made Tan's wife mistaken and hugged him. At that time, Tan entered the house and was jealous of him, indifferent to Lang. Lang was both angry and embarrassed. He left home at dawn, frustrated in his heart. A few days on the road, Lang came to the bank of a large, fast-flowing river. Lang decided not to return, bowed down on the bank, hugged his face and cried. He cried and cried and cried, so much so that the birds that went to eat late at night could still hear the sobs. The next morning, Lang turned to stone.

The legend of betel nut - The best Vietnamese secular fairy tale

I still didn't see her after that, Tan pony went looking for her and couldn't find her. Knowing that I left because I was angry with him, he regretted it. The next day, he didn't come back, so Tan panicked and left his wife at home and went to find it. He came to the river bank and saw that I had turned to stone. Tan stood next to the stone and cried until he died and turned into a tree that grew straight up to the sky, next to the stone.

Tan's wife waited forever to see her husband back, so she left home to look for it. She also went to the river to cry until her tears were dry and she died turning into a rope wrapped around the other tree.

After waiting for a long time without seeing the three of them, the Taoist couple asked everyone to share the search. In front of the stone and two strange trees, they built shrines to all three young people by the riverside. People around the area called the temple "harmonious brothers, faithful husband and wife".

One year, the weather was very dry, only two trees growing next to the stone in front of the temple were still green. People think it's magical. King Hung one day passed through that country. When passing in front of the temple, the king was surprised and asked: "Which god does this temple worship? These trees we have never seen before?". Lac general called some old people around the area to ask. The more Hung Vuong listened, the more he couldn't stop being touched. The king drew leaves and climbed up to look everywhere and sent a man to climb a tree to pick the fruit down to taste it. The taste of the tea is nothing new. But when chewing with the leaves, a strange taste comes to the tip of the tongue: it is both sweet and spicy.

Suddenly a mandarin cried out: - "Oh my God! Blood!". It turned out that the places where the fruit and leaves of those two trees were chewed, once spit on the rocks, suddenly turned red like blood. The king ordered all three things to be chewed together, when suddenly he felt hot as if there was yeast, bright red lips and a beautiful rosy face. King said:

- It's magical! That's right they are! Their love is so passionate and red.

Since then, King Hung ordered everywhere to breed many of these two plants, forcing boys and girls to get married no matter what, they must find three dishes: betel nut, areca and lime for everyone to chew and spit. to remember the love that never fades. Since then, Vietnamese people have the custom of eating betel nut.

To this day, betel nut is still an indispensable thing for the filial piety, friendship and marriage of Vietnamese people. Expresses the deep affection between family members