Once upon a time, in the east of Soc Son mountain, there was a long-standing peach blossom tree. Peach leaves are luxuriant, unusually large, dense shadow covers a wide area. There are two gods named Tra and Uat Luy residing on this giant peach tree, spreading their power to protect people throughout the region.

Secular fairy tale - The Tale of Peach Blossom Hoa

At that time, any demons or ghosts that came and went would be difficult to avoid the punishment of these two gods. Therefore, the devil was so afraid of the thunderous power of the two gods, that he was even afraid of the peach tree. Just see the peach blossom branch and run away.

On the last day of the year, like other gods, Tra and Uat Luy had to go to heaven to worship Ngoc Hoang. During the New Year's Day, the two gods were absent from the world, the demons raged, and they were acting like monsters. In order to prevent the devil from harassing, the people went to break peach blossom branches and put them in jars. Those who couldn't break peach branches took rosemary paper and drew pictures of two gods and pasted them on the front column of the house, to scare away the demons. The legend of the peach blossom also originates from there.

Every year, every New Year comes, every family tries to break peach blossom branches and put them in the house to exorcise evil spirits. However, later on, people forgot the mystical meaning of this custom because they no longer believed in ghosts and gods like their ancestors did in the past.

Legend of the peach blossom

Today, fresh peach branches still appear in every house on the occasion of Tet to spring, but its meaning is far different from the old custom. Its beauty has brought warmth to every home, sowing in everyone's heart joy, faith, love and hope in the new year.

Peach blossom is a symbol of hope for the new year, bringing the wish for a peaceful and lucky new year. So peaches are associated with Tet.

See also: The legend of the peach tree
Once upon a time in the palace of heaven, there was a woman who was a very skillful cook. She makes excellent fruit cakes, makes food so delicious that just one bite is unforgettable. So the Jade Emperor let her take care of the cooking for her in Thien Tru. But she eat clumsy and greedy.

According to heaven, the servants all have their own food, they must not touch the good, even if the Jade Emperor eats leftovers. But that rule does not stop those who are already hungry. The woman still finds all sorts of ways to make God's food store depleted.

Secular Fairy Tales: The Tale of the Broom

Although she was too young, she fell in love with an old man who was a horse shepherd for the heavens. The lives of horsemen are equally miserable in heaven and earth. He liked wine and from the moment he met this woman, he craved good food. She was so infatuated with him that he thought there was nothing more in the world. Every time she saw that man craving food and drink from God, she did not hesitate at all. Many times, she stole wine and meat from the hidden heaven and gave it to him. And many times she took him to sneak into the winery, leaving him alone.

One day, the Jade Emperor held a banquet to treat his courtiers. Grandma and the other cooks were busy working. Only at dusk, the dishes had to be fully prepared. Then when the moonlight of the full moon night was bright, everyone started to party. But in the middle of the meal being put on the tray, from a distance, she heard the old horseman singing. She knew he was looking for her. She hurried to meet him and hid him in the corner. She gave him a few cups of wine, the best wine in the world, and went back to make the last batch of macaroons.