That man had just returned from a horse bath at the riverbank. Holding a bowl of steamed rice, he suddenly remembered that the wine and meat must be in a state of confusion right now, so he quickly sneaked here. In the dark, he gulped down several cups of wine to his delight. The cup of wine was delicious, and the steam rose up and made him dizzy. He suddenly wanted something spicy. In the dark, on the tray placed nearby, there were many delicious and fragrant aromas. Being hungry, he opened the cage of the table and groped to pick it up to…

When the servants inadvertently brought out the tray of goodwill, each bowl of the bowl was as if someone had tasted it first. The Jade Emperor just saw it and couldn't stop his anger. The Jade Emperor's shout was so fierce that everyone was scared. The party thus lost its fun.

The cook woman bowed her head in confession. And then both of them were banished to the ceiling, making brooms to work without stopping and finding food in the filth of the world. It is the heaviest sin in heaven.

After a long time, seeing the prisoners expressing their frustration that they had to do hard labor day after day without rest, the Jade Emperor lovingly ordered them to take three days off in a year. Those three days are three days of the Lunar New Year.

Therefore, in the next life during the Lunar New Year, people have the custom of abstaining from sweeping the house. We Vietnamese have a riddle about the broom "There is a lady in the house who licks" that describes the spirit of sweeping the house, but there must be a reminder of the broom's legend in it.

The story criticizes gluttony, advises us to keep politeness in eating. Expanding to criticize the bad habits of people, when gluttony is said to be one of the worst human vices, it must be eliminated.
Once upon a time, all the plants on Earth at the beginning had only leaves but no flowers like now. God sent the Beauty God to use a pen to draw thousands of different flowers for the trees. Obeying God's command, the Beauty God flew down to earth, going everywhere to paint flowers for trees.

 Legend of Ngoc Lan flower

After drawing, God looked back and was not satisfied. I want to give fragrances to the flowers I just drew. Unfortunately, God does not have enough incense to distribute equally among all flowers. God decided to give this precious incense to the flower with the best heart, the most fragrant. God asked Rose:

– If there is fragrance, what will your house do?

- I will ask the wind sister to bring gifts for all. Rose replied.

The God of Beauty was satisfied and immediately gave Rose a precious fragrance. God asked Milk Flower:

– If there is fragrance, what will your house do?

- I will shine in the night so that no matter how dark the night is, everyone will recognize me. – Milk Flower replied.

This answer did not please the Beauty God very much. But then God also gave the fragrance to Hoa Sua. When he met a row of red shamans, the god asked again:

– If there is fragrance, what will your house do?

Sunflower spread her mouth and answered: