– If there is fragrance, everyone will respect me. That bunch of Dong Rieng flowers don't dare to show off their colors and compete with me anymore.

The Goddess of Beauty shook her head, sadly walking away. Going forever, giving most of the incense, God met Ngoc Lan flower:

- Oh, little Ngoc Lan flower. If I gave you this wonderful residual fragrance, what would you do?

Hoa Ngoc Lan thought for a moment. The Goddess of Beauty repeated the question until the third time Ngoc Lan flower hesitated to answer:

- Thank you God of Beauty. I like it very much. But I don't want to take it.

The God of Beauty was surprised and asked:

Every flower wants me to give it. Why did your family refuse?

- I want God to bring this incense to give to flowers and grass. I can still be at the top. Hoa Co was ugly and was being trampled on every day. Flowers are so miserable...

Speaking of which, Ngoc Lan flower burst into tears. The Goddess of Beauty was very touched and gave Ngoc Lan flowers more fragrance than other flowers.

It is because of her fragrant heart that Ngoc Lan flowers are always more fragrant than other flowers.

Secular fairy tales are very close to daily life, mainly about birth stories, less climax and contradiction as well as more receptive. The fairy world is always rich and contains many new things that not everyone knows.

Once upon a time, there was a little boy from a poor family, but he was very obedient and kind. He was always willing to help, care about people, and take care of everything around him. The boy is loved by the birds. So every spring, the birds chirping and pulling together to nest, singing around the boy's house.

One day, a Fox came and caught a swallow at the boy's house. The young Swallow fell to the ground and broke its wings. The boy rushed out to save the bird. The little boy hugged and patted the little Swallow. He decided to take the poor Swallow home to take care of him, and make another nest and feed him every day, lovingly and caringly for the little Swallow. Thanks to the boy's devoted care, the Swallow has gradually healed
At the end of autumn, the weather is getting colder. Every day, when looking up at the sky, seeing a flock of Swallows hurrying to escape the cold in the South, the Swallow half wondered if he wanted to fly with the flock, the other half was reluctant to leave him. Understanding the heart of the Swallow, the boy said lovingly: "Just fly with the flock to the warm South. In the spring, the Swallow will come back to you". After saying that, the boy threw the Swallow into the sky. The little swallow flies up to the blue sky. It joined a large flock of Swallows and flew to the warm countries of the South, longing for the boy.

Beautiful spring has arrived. Swallows find the simple but warm house of the boy's love. He cried out in joy when he saw the boy sitting in the middle of the yard knitting baskets. The Swallow's wings swooped down and the Swallow dropped in front of the boy a very large gourd seed. The boy chose a good patch of soil in front of the house and buried the gourd seeds in the ground.