Every day, the boy came out to water and take care of the soil. Soon the seeds sprouted into gourds. The gourd tree grows as fast as it blows, flowers, and results. But strangely, the gourd tree is very lush but only has one fruit. Every day the boy still loves to take care of the gourd tree.

Just like that, thanks to the boy's dedicated care, the gourd grows bigger and bigger. The gourd kept getting bigger and bigger, much bigger than the normal gourds, taller than the boy. The boy is very happy!

Truyen co viet nam bau tien 3 jpg

When the harvest season came, the boy wanted to bring home the gourd. But the gourd was so big that the whole family had to carry it together to bring it home. Anyone who takes it is happy.

When the gourd was split open, everyone was surprised... Oh! So magical! In a gourd full of gold and silver, there are countless treasures. The boy's family happily called his neighbors to come over, and shared with them the amount of gold, silver, and jewels in the gourd's intestines.

In the village there was a greedy, cruel landlord. He heard about it. He also wants to be given many gourd seeds by the Swallow. He then tried to catch a baby Swallow and broke its wings. Then he pretended to feel sorry for the Swallow and brought it home to raise.
Truyen Co. viet nam past 4 jpg

In the autumn, when he looked up at the sky and saw the first Swallows appear, he quickly threw the Swallow into the sky and said: "Fly away, Young Swallow! Hurry up and get the gourd seeds here for me!" The poor Swallow flew away.

Miraculously the next spring it also returned with a gourd seed. The old landowner was very greedy. The old man thought "This Phen is already rich!!"

The landowner happily sent someone to sow and watch day and night. He forced the housekeeper to take care of the gourd day and night, not to be loose. The gourd also grows as fast as blowing, getting bigger and bigger...

When the gourd was old, he told everyone to bring it back. The gourd was so huge, it took several people to take it in turns to carry it back to his house.

When he brought the gourd home, the greedy landlord chased everyone out. He closed the door and then he cut the gourd alone, delighted with the amount of gold, silver and jewels that he was about to have.

The gourd has just been cut open, the gold and silver are nowhere to be seen, only snakes. The snakes from the gourd competed to crawl out, causing the landlords to panic, fall back and be bitten to death by the snakes. Worthy of the wicked greedy man.

The meaning and lessons from the fairy tale gourd
Fairy Tale is a unique fairy tale for children in the treasure trove of Vietnamese fairy tales.

With many meaningful lessons about kindness and gratitude.
In the fairy tale gourd, a young swallow fell from the nest and fell to the ground and broke its wings. Lucky for the swallow, she was patted, hugged and cared for by a gentle and kind boy. Not forgetting the boy's favor, the next spring the swallow returned the favor with the seed of the gourd.
The boy is poor, but thanks to his gentleness and kindness, he is always ready to help and care for everyone, and lives in harmony with nature. Life is so happy "every spring comes, many birds chirping back to nest, singing around the boy's house". Along with the virtue of industriousness and hard work, when he was given the seeds of a gourd by a swallow, the boy carefully cultivated and cared for the tree. The result of his hard work is that the boy's family has paid off. The gourd is filled with gold, silver and jewels. The boy's family had a rich and prosperous life. The gourd has just been cut, there is no gold and silver, only snakes. The centipede came out of the gourd and bit the evil greedy landlord.