Once upon a time, there were two friends who played together very well, rarely because one was rich and the other was poor. The rich friend's name was Dai Phu, and the poor man's name was Chi Quan.

Dai Phu and his wife see that you are poor and want to help with capital to do business. Chi Quan has a straight heart and is afraid that if he takes your money, he will not pay you if his business fails. So you should refuse your help.

Dai Phu's family did not lack anything precious, but wanted to have more strange things, so one day, he took five pieces of gold and gave it to a silversmith to make a golden turtle. One day, when Chi Quan came to visit his friend, Dai Phu immediately brought the golden turtle to show off. Chi Quan looked at it and put it on a plate, then drank with his friends until he fell asleep.

At that time, Dai Phu's son returned from school far away and saw a golden turtle taking it out to play. It wasn't until Chi Quan left for a while that Dai Phu woke up to the golden tortoise, asked his wife, and his wife said she had not taken it. Dai Phu was confused, did he suspect that his good friend stole the golden turtle?

The next day, Dai Phu went to Chi Quan's house to play, unfortunately the golden turtle asked his friend:

- Hey man, did you bring my golden turtle back the other day to show you?

Hearing this, Chi Quan thought to himself: Maybe my friend suspected that I stole the golden turtle? But if you say you don't take it, you won't offend your friend, so you have to admit that you have it.

Dai Phu just told the board: - Okay, you just keep the golden turtle and play. I give you.

Dai Phu has returned, Chi Quan and his wife are worried, how to have a golden turtle to pay you. The couple discussed selling the house to Mr. Phu and asked to be a servant to have enough money to make a golden turtle to pay for his friend.

The Golden Tortoise Fairy Tale

Mr. Phu knew the story and was moved, so he called the silversmith to make another golden turtle, gave it to Chi Quan and his wife to return it, and did not accept Chi Quan and his wife as servants, but only let him stay. .

After a while, Dai Phu's son returned home with a golden tortoise that had been pre-made, returned it to his parents, and said: - The other day, when I came home, I suddenly saw a golden turtle in a plate, so I took it Keep it here, if you encounter a thief, it will be lost forever. So please give it back.

Seeing that, Dai Phu and his wife were extremely surprised. The golden turtle my child took to play, which golden turtle do you return? Just thinking about it, maybe the poor friend was afraid of being blamed, so he made another turtle to do that.

Only then did Dai Phu bring the golden turtle to Chi Quan's house to return it and apologize to his friend. But the house has been sold, you and your wife stay in Mr. Phu's house. Dai Phu immediately went to Mr. Phu to return the turtle and asked to bring the couple back. Mr. Phu refused as follows:

- Did you borrow my turtle to return it? As for Chi Quan and his wife, what are the obligations to receive? And Chi Quan admitted that he was indebted to Mr. Phu, so he refused to return.

The story became complicated, the three of them took each other to the public door to ask for arbitration.

Naturally, the superior did not know what to do with the three honest and kind people.

The story not only promotes the honesty of people, it is better to take the bad part of yourself than to lie. The poor friend in the story could bluntly say that he did not take the golden turtle but did not. In life, treat each other with sincerity, with understanding, the results are always worth it.