The Fairy Tale of Honesty - The Three Axes

The woodcutter happily took the two axes that the old man gave him and thanked him. The old man cast a spell and disappeared. Only then did the woodcutter know that he had just been helped.

This is a typical story when it comes to the virtue of honesty. The author wrote this story for the purpose of praising honest, honest people who are not materialistic. Those who, like the woodcutter, never covet what is not theirs, are always sincere and honest, in the end will be helped and have success and happiness. In life, you should not sell the truth of your conscience for material benefits, always be honest with others and with yourself.
Once upon a time there was an old king who had no children and wanted to find a successor. The king ordered to give each citizen a basket of rice to sow and promised: Whoever collects the most rice will inherit the throne and whoever has no rice will be punished.

Fairy Tales Seeds of Rice

In a certain village, there was a boy named Chom who lost his parents. He also went to receive rice and tried to take care of it, but not a single grain of rice sprouted. When the harvest came, people carried rice back to the capital and paid it to the king. Ramm worried, he went to the king and knelt down and said:

- Your Majesty! I can't make your rice sprout.

Everyone was stunned by the confession of Chom, this phen will be severely punished, but the king helped the boy up, gently said:

- Before distributing the seed, we have boiled it thoroughly. How can they still germinate? Those full carts of grain were not obtained from my seed.

Then the king boldly declared:

Honesty is the most precious human quality. I will pass the throne to this honest and brave boy.

The story has told the eternal truth, honesty is the most precious virtue of man, without it, man loses half of his value. In the story, all the people in the country lost to the boy, because they did not dare to announce the truth, they were afraid of the king's punishment, so they forgot that the truth is the first thing that should be respected. For all those who stay honest, they will get the parts they usually deserve like the boy in the story above.
Once upon a time there was a carpenter named Gepetto. I live alone because I have no family. After hard working days, he loves to make beautiful little wooden dolls. One night, a fairy came to reward him for his hard work and transform a small wooden statue into a real boy. Gepetto happily named him Pinocchio and sent him to the best school in the village. Alas! Pinocchio doesn't like going to school at all, and he's drawn in by two street kids he meets on his way to school. It was soon captured by puppeteers and kept in a cage.

Pinocchio regrets his life in school, he begs the fairy to save him. The fairy appeared asking him to tell him the whole truth, but Pinocchio still lied and the boy panicked when he noticed that his nose was getting longer and longer as he continued to lie. Later, when she was comfortable enough with this punishment, she returned Pinocchio's nose to its normal shape, rescued it from its cage and told it that Uncle Gepetto was so upset about his disappearance that he had abandoned home leave.
