Uncle Gepetto was swallowed by a giant whale. Pinocchio realizes the mistakes he has made and decides to save his uncle, he dives into the sea. It burrowed into the whale's belly, where it met Uncle Gepetto again. Together they lit a big fire in the whale's belly. Too painful, the whale had to release everything and so our two friends were freed.

Returning home, Uncle Gepetto went back to work, and Pinocchio has since proved to be a very obedient child.

Pinochio is a wooden boy, if he lies, his nose will be long. The story is written to criticize naughty children who lie to their parents as well as adults. At the same time, we warn of the unpredictable consequences if we lie to others, we will be punished by those bad habits.

One day, an old beggar knocked on the door of a magnificent castle. He said to the housekeeper, "For the love of God, give alms to this poor man."

The housekeeper replied, "I must consult the landlady."

The landlady was a miserly lady, she said: "Give the poor old man a loaf of bread. Just one. Give it yesterday."

The honesty of a respectable beggar

The old man returned to the tree where he lived day and night, sat down and pulled out the loaf he had just asked to eat. Suddenly, his teeth bit into something very hard. The old man was very surprised when he discovered a gold ring set with diamonds and pearls.

"I'm so lucky!" thought the old man. "I'll sell this ring and I'll have enough money for a long time."

However, the old man's honesty immediately stopped that intention: "No, I will find the owner of the ring and return it to them". Inside the ring is engraved two letters "J. X". The old man went straight to the store and asked for the phone book. The whole town has only one family whose name starts with the letter "X": the Xofaina family.

Determined to live honestly, the old man hurried to find Xofaina's house. And very surprised because it was the family that gave him the loaf. He said to the butler, "I found a golden ring in the loaf you just gave me." The landlady was overjoyed: "Fortunately, I found my lost ring last week. I dropped it while looking at the dough maker. The 'J.X' stands for my name, Josermina Xofaina."

After thinking for a while, the landlady said, "Give that poor old man whatever he wants, as long as it's not too expensive." The housekeeper turned to the old man and asked: "For your noble deed, what reward do you want to receive?". The old beggar said: "Give me a loaf of bread! That's enough for me". Seeing that he had no greed, the owner suddenly came up with the idea to keep him to take care of the warehouse in the house. Since then, she is completely secure, never afraid of theft. The old man has a job for the rest of his life."

A beggar with a respectable heart, even poverty does not make people evil. But actually in that harsh environment only makes people's honesty shine and be rewarded.