Here for a month, two months, at first the ninth fairy really missed her mother and father, but with the care and affection of the old lady and the gentle and diligent boy, she gradually relaxed. In the morning she also went to the fields, into the forest, in the afternoon she went to the well to bring water with her sisters.

Half a year later, the old woman's son married a fairy. The couple lives together very peacefully and happily. The villagers liken them to a starling couple – because they are both beautiful and hard working. The husband never scolded his wife half a word. Every afternoon when he returned to the forest, he also tried to find his mother and wife a fragrant squid tube, a bunch of hot vegetables, a bunch of bamboo shoots, or a basket of sweet-smelling young corn. Two seasons, three seasons, on a full moon night, the ninth fairy gave birth to a beautiful son. Since then, the house has become warmer and happier. But one day when the sky was peaceful, suddenly there was a loud, angry thunder. Dark clouds, gray clouds filled the sky. The fire was bright red, flashing fiercely. The wife had just carried her child to the top of the western floor when suddenly saw a thunderbolt from the sky with a hammer and jumped into the yard. With an angry face, Thien Lei said that he obeyed God's orders and went down to force the fairy to return immediately, or else he would kill her child, her husband and her mother-in-law too. Loving her children, loving her husband so much, the fairy fell down and sobbed, then ran into the house to pull out three long bamboo tubes filled with milk, gently put the child on the mat, cut a handful of hair, left it for her husband, and then followed Thien Lei back to heaven. family.

In the afternoon, the old woman and her husband came home, did not see the fairy, only saw the child sleeping next to his mother's fragrant hair. Seeing the trees leaning, scorched, knowing that something terrible had happened, he carried the child on his back, walked down the stairs into the forest, watched the sky cry for nine days and nights. The cry of mourning, resentful, choking throat, heartache. Believed, the villagers love each other so much, they invite each other to help and contribute. Thanks to a blacksmith who specializes in flying iron birds, cast an iron peacock for the unfortunate father and son.

After getting the iron bird, the father and son sat on the back of the peacock and flew up to the sky. Through pink clouds, silver clouds, blue clouds, coming to the Ganges River, coming to the court, the iron peacock cannot fly. Strong wind, fierce waves. Five or seven times the peacock took off and was about to fall. Father and son had to stay on this side of the river. One day, the wife went to the river to wash clothes, the young child saw her mother, immediately called. "Mommy!" The wife turned and the husband and wife saw each other, but could not get close. Suffering, they covered their faces and cried.
