Once upon a time, there was an old woman who had an older son, but she was too poor to have money to ask a wife for her child. Every night she saw her son sleeping alone by the fire, she also went to the floor and looked at the sky and cried. One night, after crying too much, she fell asleep on the wall and fell asleep without knowing when. A flash of lightning flashed, the old woman hurriedly opened her eyes and saw an old man with white beard and white hair, wearing a blue shirt, green shoes, leaning on a green cane, standing on top of a jackfruit tree. Panicked, the old woman was about to run to the kitchen, but saw the old man waved his hand and said in a gentle voice: "I am a fairy, I know that she is suffering because of poverty and has no money to ask a wife for her children, so I help her. . Tomorrow she told her son to follow the direction I pointed, keep going until the mountain has a white stone as big as the other house, you will see nine fairies coming down to bathe. If your son loves you, just take the fairy's wings and bring it home."

After saying that, Tien disappeared. Overjoyed, the old woman pushed open the door, went in and blew the fire on the stove, called her son up, and told the story of the past.

Early the next morning, the son packed rice, put on a water pipe, crossed the forest, climbed the mountain, and climbed from one mountain to another, only to arrive at the place he told him at noon. A beautiful scene unfolded before my eyes. The lake is blue, clear as a mirror, with a way to the wharf, on the shore of fragrant flowers, strange grass is blooming with bees and butterflies, stones sparkling like diamonds. 
Seeing the sun fluttering, he raised his eyes to the sky, suddenly from the pink cloud there were nine fairies wearing white robes, flying and descending. The poor boy hid in the dust and watched. Nine fairies stood on the jade stones, took off their wings, waded into the bath. The water is clear, the fairies' skin is white, they are all as beautiful as the rising sun. Only the ninth girl is the most beautiful and gentle. Her hair is black and long like a stream, her laughter is clear and clear like the sound of a flute: her mouth is more beautiful than blooming flowers, her eyes are as bright as stars, when she looks at something, it glows like a hundred thousand rays of light. shining. The boy snuck up to steal the ninth girl's fairy wings, then returned home.
The drums in the sky rang seven times before picking up the alarm that they had to return to the fairy palace. The eight sisters came ashore, fitted their wings, and flew ahead. And the younger sister was busy playing in the cool water, up behind. Seeing no more fairy wings, she panicked and frantically ran around the shore. The drum in the sky is still rushing, it's about to close the door of heaven. The ninth fairy ran around the wharf to look for it again, but she did not see it. Looking at human footprints still imprinted on the fine sand, footprints on the way down the mountain, knowing that someone had taken her wings, she hurriedly re-fastened her shirt and followed the footsteps forever. In the late afternoon, she came to a small house on stilts, built alone at the foot of the mountain.
