The villagers of the heavens saw this and were very sorry. They went to the heavens to ask the couple to meet each other. But the heavens did not allow it, on the pretext that the ninth fairy was about to be married to a boy of a noble family. Without hesitation, the villagers kept sending people to knock on the door, forcing the court to judge. In the end, Ngoc Hoang had to order if her ninth husband could do a few things later to get the daughter of the heavens. The first is that in a day, you have to pick up all the sesame seeds that fall in the field as long as a bird's wings. The second is to eat all the ripe chili peppers in a chili forest. The third is to build a beautiful diamond house in the middle of the Ganges. Love children, love wife, husband must accept. The next morning, the father and son got up very early to pick up sesame, but until noon, when the sun was in the middle of the crown, they still hadn't picked up much. Seeing that, the old man immediately read the spell, called a large flock of sparrows, flew down to pick it up, soon it was all gone.

But how can the forest of ripe red peppers be picked up? The husband tried to eat, his stomach was hot like fire, his eyes were red, but he could only eat a few fruits. When the fairy saw that, he immediately chanted the spell and turned out a flock of crested birds flew down to help eat. In a moment, the whole chili forest was left with only branches and leaves. (Up to now, the Hebrews explain that the crested bird salutes the red ass because it used to eat chili to save people.)

It's time to build a diamond house in the middle of the fast-flowing Ganges. The young man and the villagers poured a lot of wood into the river, but the wood, no matter how heavy, was swept away by the water like a leaf. One day is not good, one month is not good, one season is not good, one year is not finished, all plans are exhausted, the young man holding his son sat by the riverside crying bitterly.

The fish god immediately ordered the eels, giant fish, carp, eels, crabs, turtles, snakeheads, barnacles, etc. to all swim to help. A large eel thrashed violently, raised its head and said: "Don't worry, tomorrow you will have a nice house and will see your wife. Be happy, don't cry anymore!" Indeed, the next morning, when the sun had just woken up, suddenly a glittering diamond house appeared massively in the middle of the river. Around the waves crashing. The house is built by fish species, the eel is accepted as the pillar, the snakehead fish as the stall, the giant fish, and the carp as the roof. The barnacles make the beams, the turtles make the kitchen, the crabs make the gong hooks, the eels and the eels are linked together to form a beautiful bridge from the bank to the middle of the river.

Ngoc Hoang and the evil god saw a beautiful house and brought a boat for the poor guy to cross the river to meet his wife. And they enthusiastically carried rice, rice, gongs, jars to the diamond house, they rushed to celebrate. But as soon as the fire was lit to cook the meat, the turtle made the stove too hot to roll right into the water. At the same time, eels, snakeheads, headfish, catfish… also rolled along. The house collapsed, sinking all the evil spirits into the fast-flowing river full of crocodiles and milkfish. The sky is high, the waves are vast and white.

Since then, the ninth fairy and her husband have been in charge of the heavens, making the rain fall, keeping the earth cool. Make the sun shine down so that the grass is green and the flowers bloom in four seasons. From time to time, they fly down to bathe in the jade stream and then return to visit their old mother and relatives in the old countryside.

The story is the boy's journey to find love, overcoming all the dangers, the boy proved that love does not discriminate between rich and poor. Our people have entrusted the dream of breaking the boundary between rich and poor, believing that as long as there is love, even mortals and fairies can come together. The story is a sure statement that the good side is always the winner, the evil side will be punished.
