Once upon a time, in a certain village, there lived a poor old woman who lived by catching crabs and snails every day. Once, she caught a very beautiful snail, it had a blue shell, for some reason she fell in love with this snail, she decided not to sell it and brought it home to raise in a jar of water.

Snail fairy

Every day, she still hunts for crabs and snails, but when she comes home, she is surprised to see that the yard is clean, the pigs are well fed, the vegetable garden is clean and the rice is cooked. She wondered and wondered who had helped her.

Seeing something strange, she decided to spy on who had helped her. She did not expect that the person who helped her was the girl who came out of the green shell and came out from the water jar. She secretly broke the green shell, then hugged her daughter, hoping she would stay with her, the girl agreed. Since then, they have loved each other and been very happy.

The story has a familiar motif like the story of Tam Cam, the image of hard-working fairies that has entered the hearts of many readers. The story both praises the honesty of the old woman, and advises us to love and share, especially to be grateful to those who have helped us, like the snail fairy who became the old woman's daughter.
Once upon a time, there was a house with only two children. The mother is old and weak, unable to work in the fields anymore. The girl loved her mother very much and worked hard to support her elderly mother all day.

That year there was a great drought, crop failure, and famine. The girl and everyone in the village flocked to work for the rich man in the area.

He made everyone work all day but only fed a bowl of rice stuffed with a lot of corn and cassava. Every day she eats half a bowl of rice, and the other half she packs to bring back to her mother.

At night, she had to sleep next to the granary to watch the mice. One night, as she slept, she heard a sigh, then a gentle voice: "I am the rice fairy. I made a mistake when I helped that stingy old man, having wealth but not loving people. The old man was poor, but he loved people, so I helped him become rich. But the richer he became, the more he changed his character and became greedy and cruel. Then I will treat him properly.”
When the rice fields are golden, only waiting to reap. He was afraid of people stealing rice, so he chased them all out without paying a penny. Suddenly, water rushed from nowhere and flooded the old man's house, and the rice fields on the fields and fields were washed away. After the great drought, the rain was favorable and the wind was favorable, and there were crops everywhere. Meanwhile, the rich man called the workers but no one came. They told each other to stay away from the greedy and stingy old man. The old man was exhausted and could no longer eat a bowl of rice.

The girl went back to the forest to dig roots, pick bamboo shoots, and take care of her elderly mother. One day, just out of the forest gate, he met an old beggar woman. The old woman shivered because of the cold, her mouth moaned: "I am… tired… I am… hungry!” She quickly gathered the leaves to warm the fire, grilled bamboo shoots for her grandmother to eat. The old woman chewed deliciously, and when she finished the bamboo shoot, she called out for water. She immediately took the bamboo pipe to the stream to get water. When I returned, my grandmother was nowhere to be found. Just see the bag. She then put the bag back to return the next day, but never saw the old woman again. She had to put it up in the kitchen.

Strangely, when she came home from work, she found the bag full of rice. It turned out that they were the pearls that nourished the people that the fairy gave her. The girl brought rice for everyone to breed. The people in the village never knew hunger and cold again. From old people to children, everyone compliments the beautiful girl and the beautiful person.

The image of the rice fairy represents the pearl of heaven and earth. Rice is the most important food of our people, the fairy in the story of the protector of wealth, so she decided not to help the greedy landlord. The story also advises us not to be selfish only thinking about material possessions. There is a proverb that says "Greed is deep", knowing enough is always better.