Once upon a time, there was a rare peasant couple who prayed to God to pray to the Buddha for a long time before the wife became pregnant, but when she was born, she was not a human but a toad.

The toad grew up, knew how to speak human language, but its shape was rough and ugly, making its parents sad, often complaining to each other: "My husband and I are old and rare, thinking we can have a baby. line, take care of myself, I wonder if the wrong family will give birth to a toad, what else to expect"

Toad heard that, advised his parents not to worry. Then the very next day, the toad jumped to look after the fields for his parents, and since he took care of the fields, no one has stolen the rice from his house like before.

One day, a few students passed through his field, stepped on rice, suddenly heard a sharp voice like a girl's voice saying: "Please go carefully lest you destroy my rice". The students looked into the rice field, saw no one, only a toad sitting there. The sweet voice made one of the brothers fall in love. This scholar has been reading fairy books for a long time, believing that there is a miracle in life, so he went home and told his parents that he would like to ask toad to be his wife.

Toad fairy

At first, the scholar's parents thought his child had gone rabies, but he insisted on marrying toad until he could, otherwise, he vowed never to marry anyone. The father then made an excuse to refuse, saying that he was the only one who was a son, would he be able to have children if he got married? The student believes that a miracle will happen on the day of the toad's wedding, and Fairy Buddha will help toad become a person with more virtue and beauty than life. Seeing that his son was so determined, his parents also had to comply, bringing betel nut to ask toad.

On the wedding day, the groom's family brought enough gifts, jewelry, and clothes for the bride like an ordinary person, the groom hoped that the fairy Buddha would turn the toad into a beautiful girl like he still dreamed. Both of them expected the same, but when it came to the procession, everyone had to laugh and be ashamed to bring a jumping toad to the husband's house.

The parents-in-law were both sad and troubled for their son, and bitter because their daughter-in-law was toad, so they immediately gave the couple a field to live separately. The student is also sad, studying hard, researching mystical sciences, hoping to solve problems for the family, especially for elderly parents who are longing to have a grandchild. Toad is diligent at work at home, staying up late and getting up early to advise her husband to work hard.

Every day when he came home from school, he saw that the food was ready, the house was clean and tidy, and then he thought to himself that in his absence, his wife must have turned into a toad, but how can a toad take care of the housework How clever is that? A few times he tried to stalk, left and then suddenly returned, hoping to find his wife a beautiful girl, but only saw a rough toad at home. He begged toad to turn into a beauty for himself to be happy, but toad still calmly did not show anything.