One night, he told Toad that he had been recruited to teach at a provincial school, and told the truth that he couldn't take his wife with him if she still kept her guise. Since the day of his wedding, he has suffered many ridicule from neighbors and friends. Moreover, his parents still urged him to get another wife to have children to follow in the family business. Toad quietly listened to her husband lament, advised him not to be too sad, and asked permission to go home the next day to visit his parents.

In the morning, the toad followed her husband, and after a while, he jumped into a bush by the roadside. The scholar stopped and saw a strangely beautiful girl coming out of the bushes, beyond his expectations for so long. He was happy to bewilderedly watching his beautiful wife approach, passionately looking at her from head to toe, and then earnestly begged her to keep her human form from here on. Knowing that his wife had shed her toad guise in the dust, he made up an excuse to step back and then ran to the bush to find a toad's disguise and hide in himself.

Arriving at home, the student's parents were delighted to see that their daughter-in-law had turned out to be a beautiful and gentle person. The husband was overjoyed when people didn't notice, put the skin of a toad into the fire to dissipate. The couple stayed at their parents' house for a few days, happily partying and then returning home.

On the way back, the wife made an excuse to go to the bushes to find her old clothes, but when she didn't see it, the new husband said that he had burned it. The wife had to keep her human form to return to her husband.

The couple lives together lovingly and happily, the wife gives birth to many children, the husband passes the exam, makes a great job, and lives a happy life.

The story advises us not to judge a person by appearance. Although the toad fairy has an ugly appearance, she has a kind heart, talented and diligent, not inferior to any girl. The story promotes a person's inner beauty, advising us to take the beauty of the soul as a measure, not the beauty of the outside.
Once upon a time, the Moon, the Sun and the Rooster lived together in the sky.

The Moon wears a white shirt, and the Rooster wears a red hat. The Moon likes the Rooster's red hat very much. One day, the Moon said to the Rooster:

- Let's exchange shirts and hats!

The Rooster replied:

- I don't like your white shirt. I don't trade hats for shirts!

The Moon kept asking for a change, but the Rooster definitely refused. The Moon took the Rooster's hat and threw it on the ground. The Rooster hurried to the ground to pick up his hat. But the ground was so dark that the Rooster could not find his hat. The Rooster suddenly remembered the Sun. The Rooster immediately raised her to the sky and called out:
