– Oh my sun! Sun!

The sun quickly lifted the clouds and looked down at the ground. The bright rays of the sun shined everywhere.
Thanks to the sunlight shining down, the Rooster saw his red hat hanging on a tree branch. The Rooster happily flew up to take the hat and put it on his head. The Rooster was about to fly to the sky, but because he was too tired, he couldn't take off anymore. The Rooster calls out:

– Oh my sun! Pull me up!

But the Sun cannot pull the Rooster up. The Sun had to comfort the Rooster:

- Rooster! Please stay on the ground. Early in the morning, call “Ò o o…! Heaven's Face!" I'll wake up and talk to you!

From then on, the Rooster always woke up early and crowed "ooo o" to wake up the sun. High above, the Sun with a round, rosy face, smiled at the Rooster. All kinds of flowers bloom, show off their brilliant colors. The leaves also opened their eyes and cheered to welcome the sun. People call that time day.

As for the Moon, she feels very regretful and ashamed for treating her friend Rooster badly. Therefore, the Moon waits until the sun goes down on the other side of the mountains, and the Rooster rings the bell to go to sleep before he dares to appear. People call when the Moon radiates soft, weak rays, it is night.

The story not only explains the phenomenon of day and night, but also depicts a beautiful friendship between the rooster and the sun, two seemingly unrelated things, but have very precious feelings for each other. The sun acts as the eldest brother, protecting the rooster, whereas the rooster is always grateful to the sun.
Once upon a time, there were three students, Tung, Truc, and Mai, from three different regions, who happened to study together with a teacher. Their parents are poor but still try to send their children to school. During the days away from home, buried in books, the trio became very close friends. They wish each other that if someone does well in the future, they will not forget those who lived in the past and will try to find a way to help you through the poverty. After a period of studying, all three people because of their circumstances should say goodbye to each other and go their separate ways.

Tung is the first person whose fate is to become lucky. Having a smart mind, he tried his best to pursue a book-light career. Because of poverty, he worked with an old Nghe to both eat and study. Seeing that he studied well, Mr. Nghe wholeheartedly taught him, treating him like a son. After several years of intense history cooking, he finally passed the doctorate exam and was appointed an official in the capital. Since then, Tung's life was like a kite in the wind, difficult for anyone to keep up with.

Although living in a rich situation, Tung still hasn't forgotten his old friends. So, one day, Tung asked for leave from work to look for friends. Afraid that going with a soldier's stretcher would disturb everyone, he disguised himself as a commoner. It wasn't long before he went to Truc's house, one of two close friends from the past.
