In the end, the couple had to work as plowing the fields, sometimes they had to work every day to earn enough to feed their mouth. Although they lived in a thatched hut with dirt walls and struggled to find food, the couple did not complain.

Seeing Tung coming to play at home, Mai welcomed him very warmly. Mai introduces you to his wife:

– This is the best friend of the school day with the old man in the province. From then until now, it's been easy fifteen years. I remember running to find something to treat him, listen!

Tung saw that your wife obeyed her husband and stole a basket to go to the market. At noon again, he saw that the woman brought a basket of food, but her head was covered with a black scarf even though it was not in the cold windy season. At first, Tung didn't notice. Later, while he was wandering around the house, he saw Mai and his wife pulling each other into the room to whisper and chat.

Looking in, a surprise caught his eye: at this time, Mai's wife had removed the scarf, but the blue hair on her head was no longer there. So, when Mai and her husband walked out of the room, Tung quickly asked why she cut her hair. Knowing that she could no longer hide it, Mai's wife had to explain:

– When I left in the morning without money, I was going to ask to borrow some acquaintances, but they were not available. Since there is a wig restaurant, I need to buy some curls, I have long hair, I immediately sell it. Once in a lifetime, you just come to play at home, can't you just sit and stare at each other? Don't be afraid, the hair is cut and it grows back, don't worry.

Tung was very touched by Mai's wife's actions. He then told you the truth, about how he passed the exam to be a mandarin, worked hard to find friends, and then went to Truc's house to be treated badly by him, etc. After that, Tung rummaged through his hands and handed Mai a box of betel nut to his wife. in gold

After returning for a while, Tung sent someone to give money to Mai and sent Mai to Nam Dinh to learn the craft of tanning. When he learned a job, Tung also helped Mai open a tannery in the village. Their business is thriving. Mai also spread her craft to the villagers. Tannery became a prosperous business like never before in a region.

And Truc only later heard the news that Tung had become a big man in the capital, he regretted it. Then I heard that Mai thanks Tung for doing well. "If only I had received my friend back then, why would my friend not be able to run for a bit of dignity," he said to himself. One day, he wrapped a towel and went to visit the two people's house in turn. But when he went to anyone's house, he was also treated blandly. He was forced to return.

The story criticizes those who crave material possessions but forget their childhood friendships, and at the same time express deep admiration for the actions of Mai's wife, who understands the value of friendship.
How important is friendship? There are things that are lost and can be found again like wealth, but friendship is much more precious, once lost, it cannot be regained.
