That day, there were two best friends named Quac and Nhan. They are all poor students, and all of them are orphans. Quac learned more than his friends, he worked as a teacher to teach children. Although the perks are not much, but Quac often helps Nhan. On the contrary, once, when he was seriously ill, if he had not had a friend to take medicine day and night, he would hardly have survived. Then, because of their livelihood, the two of them had to separate from each other.

While Quac lived a life teaching children, Nhan also roamed all the strange areas working as hired laborers. After a period of wandering, he finally entered a job for a rich merchant. Seeing that he was honest, hardworking, and very reliable. Soon Nhan was richly married to his daughter. So Nhan automatically became a rich man with a good fortune in the area. People are rich but do not forget friendship. Nhan still remembers the vow "life and death are happy and miserable together" with Quac. Nhan took the effort to find and was happy to see that Quoc was still alive. Although Quac was in the middle of a teaching year, Nhan still negotiated with the parents of his students for their children to transfer to another teacher and then took him home. Nhan told his family to consider Quac no different from himself, serving rice and water should not be late.

The fairy tale of the hoe

But in the past, Nhan's wife used to treat ragged people, she often had a disdainful attitude. And she didn't live the same days as Nhan, so she didn't understand the friendship between Nhan and Quac. But seeing that her husband was very respectful to guests, at first he did not dare to say anything. Nhan always told his wife: “This is the closest person in my life. If it weren't for you, I wouldn't have lived to see her." Nhan's wife just mumbled: "Good! Friends with friends! Only sitting and eating is harmful!".

Gradually, Nhan's wife became angry. She was annoyed by the strange guest who suddenly came to her house and didn't help her family, just sitting on the high bed, eating and drinking twice a day. Seeing that his wife's attitude is becoming more and more extreme, her husband is only afraid of losing her friend. On the one hand, take care of you personally, and on the other hand, advise your wife. But the Witness's wife still keeps that habit. As for Quac, he understood everything. Twice, Quac told you to return, but Nhan tried to keep it. Seeing his loyal friend, Quac lingered for a while. But that day, Quac decided to leave because he had just heard the words that insulted him severely. Quac thought, if he did not plan early, he would one day be humiliated with this woman. But if you go like the previous times, you will be confused and difficult to escape.