One day, the sky was still foggy, Quac took off and sneaked out. Wanting to save you the trouble of searching, when he went through a forest, he took off his shirt and hung it on a tree by the road as if he were dead. Duan Quac groped to another country and returned to the job of knocking young heads.

Seeing that he had lost his friend, Nhan supplemented to look for him, but he couldn't find any trace anywhere. When he heard that someone had caught a scarf on the southern edge of the forest, he rushed to see it. Make sure it's your towel. Nhan deeply regretted, "Well, I've hurt my friend! My friend must have been robbed and killed." But then Nhan thought: "If my friend doesn't have a penny in his pocket, even if he meets a robber, it doesn't matter. This is either being eaten by a leopard, or getting lost in the deep forest. Either way, we'll definitely go this way."

Nhan started to go to the forest to find Quac. Seeing no blood stains, he was even more hopeful. Human ice has no thorns, crawls through the bushes, always calls out "Quack! Wow! Quack! Quach!… Nhan goes forever, calls forever. Wandering around in the vast forest. Until his last breath, that faithful friend still did not forget to call: “Wow! Quack!”. Then the dead man turned into a rhododendron, also known as a pickaxe.

Talking about the story after that, Nhan's wife waited forever to see her husband back, repenting for her actions. One day, she ran away from home to find her husband. Finally reached the southern forest, heard the sound of “Quack! Quack!” she recognized as her husband's voice calling to you. She was overjoyed and shouted: "Is that Mr. Nhan?"

There was no response other than “Quick! Quack!” of the rhododendron. Nhan's wife followed the sound of azalea birds into the deep forest. Finally could not find the exit, so desperate that he died next to a tree.

The story depicts a touching friendship between two people. Although Nhan was rich, he never forgot his childhood friend, their friendship is worthy of praise. The story has visualized the characters, placing them in a fairy-tale context to affirm the great sacredness, as well as the eternity of friendship. The story also criticizes those who look down on friendship, thinking only of profit. immediate benefit, such people will sooner or later face retribution.
Once upon a time, every hen had a beautiful red crest like the crest of a rooster now. One early morning, the roof of Mo looked at herself in the puddle and was happy to see the brilliant crest lying on top of her head like a bunch of bright red flowers. Chicken Mo happily flapped its wings and sang the familiar song of the chicken family:

“My department, my department!
My crest has grown!
Department, Department!
My crest has grown!”

Everything turned to look at Mo chicken and whispered: "What a beautiful new crest, Mo Ga looks so lovely". Chicken Mo roams everywhere looking for prey. It came to the water tank and suddenly heard a loud cry. The dream roof stopped, tilted her head, blinked her eyes and listened. It turned out to be a burgundy tree, with elongated leaves, crying alone. Mo chicken is happy, seeing you sad, Dream is confused. He quickly ran over and asked softly:

- What's wrong with you? Who annoys you?

The tree dropped drops of tears as transparent as dewdrops at the base and sniffed saying:

– The trees around here, all have flowers, but only I do not have flowers. Just now, a tree even said: "Even a hen dreams of having flowers on her head. So that…"
