Once upon a time, there was a guy who had no talent at all, only being gentle or loving people. Since his wife's death, he has become miserable. There was a time when I had to raise my hand to beg. Seeing that this job was mean and could not support himself, the new guy turned to work as a hired worker. But after only working for one day, he felt tired and humiliated by the owner, so he planned to work as a fisherman, which he considered to be more leisurely and free. That afternoon, they paid thirty copper coins. The guy then took that money as capital, bought a tongue to buy a rope, determined to do business with a new career.

The next morning, he went out to fish by the riverbank. But by noon, nothing had been found. The bait keeps losing me. It was not until the afternoon that he saw the buoy sink, and he pulled it up and found a water snake. Annoyed, the man removed the snake and threw it into the river. The second time he pulled it up, it was the same water snake from earlier that got stuck in his tongue.

Save things for revenge, save people for revenge

He lamented to the snake: - "Snake! I'm very poor, only thirty copper coins. Don't harm me all the bait, then here's what to eat." The guy threw the snake back into the water. The third time the same snake caught the hook. This time he was so angry that he didn't drop the snake into the water anymore, but grabbed the snake's neck to kill it. Through the door of the shrine of the goddess Khai Khau, the water snake suddenly cried out:

- Don't kill me, I'm the son of the King of Water. Because I wanted to be friends with him, I took the bait so many times. Let me follow, I will help you overcome poverty.

He obeyed, let the snake follow him. Since then he has caught a lot of fish: food, things to sell, a very pleasant life. The guy with the snake is getting better and better.

One day the snake told him that in three days there would be a great flood like never before. He listened to the snake to build a raft to prevent accidents. He also informed the people around him. But no one wants to listen. Three days later, indeed, the wind and storm raged, the rain poured down, and the water rose like the sea.

People, objects, furniture and crops,... all disappeared.

It wasn't until the day the storm stopped that he dared to fight the raft to find his old place.

Seeing an ant nest floating in the water, the snake said to him:

- Please save them a little bit.

He replied:

- What's the point of getting rid of those little ants so they can crawl all over the raft.

But the snake implored: