- No, listen to me. Then they will thank you.

Listening to the snake, the guy picked up the ant nest on his raft.

After walking for a while, I met a rat wading about about to drown. The snake urged him to pick it up again. - "Oh," he replied. "The rat would have let it die instead of saving it." - "No, listen to me. Then it will repay you." Listening to the snake, the guy picked up the rat on his raft.

To another place, they met a python lying curled up on a treetop in the middle of the water, waiting to die. The snake also urged him to help the python escape. "Oh," he replied. "The python is terrible, why save it?" - "No, you listen to me. Then it will repay you". Listening to the snake, the guy helped the python get on the raft.

Finally they met a man clinging to a tree floating in the water. He didn't wait for the snake to tell him, and was about to get on the raft, but the snake stopped him:

- Don't pick it up, it will hurt you.

Despite the snake's advice, he was determined to carry out his thoughts, pick up the drowning person on the raft, warm the fire and give him food to eat. After a few days, the water receded, he released all the water. animals ashore. As for the other man, because his family drifted, his house disappeared, so he let him stay with him to fish and feed each other and consider him as a younger brother.

By the time the water snake returned to the Water Palace, it invited him to accompany him down to his father's Jiangshan. Along the way, the snake said to you: - "If my father has something to give, remember not to accept it, but just ask for the seven-hien lute. If there is an enemy, playing a song can make the enemy disappear." King Thuy saw a friend of his son coming to play and was delighted and treated him very well. When King Thuy sent his servants to bring gold, silver and jewels, he remembered the snake's words and tried to refuse, only asking for a seven-stringed lute. King Thuy respects him, agrees immediately. He returned to the earth, cherishing the infinite instrument.

One day he had to go far away. Before leaving, he hid the harp under the grain, telling his friend not to get too close to the grain. But the other man heard the instructions, thinking that there were precious things down there, so he tried to find it, and the fruit was caught. He knew the mystery of that instrument, so he stole it and fled to the capital to make a name for it.

At that time, the king's army had to confront a neighboring country that was constantly pulling troops to harass the territory. He asked the king to go and eliminate the evil enemy. Thanks to the magic harp, he made the enemy's army fall in disarray. The king tried to marry his daughter to the general, but as soon as he was betrothed, the princess suddenly became mute. Therefore, the wedding had to be postponed until the princess recovered.

Talking about the fisherman again, when he returned, he found that he had lost his friend and lost his lost instrument, so he quickly left home to find it. Arriving in the capital, one day he met the other man who was now sitting on a palanquin painted with yellow paint, with a large army of soldiers following him. He took the palanquin back,