ask old friends. But the other man, having just met his benefactor, immediately shouted at the soldiers to tie him up. Then, in order not to reveal the story, he falsely accused him of being a warlord, ordered him to be locked in a secret place, without food, to wait for the day to be brought to the court.

In the dungeon, while the guy was lamenting his fate, the old ants found a way to ask: - "Why are you imprisoned here?". The bewildered guy didn't understand who asked him, so he asked again: - "Who is it? Why can I only hear the voice but not see the person?" - "We are the ants that you saved from the flood, now at your feet." The guy bent down to search and then told the ant his story. Ant said: - "We can't do anything but let us go find the mouse that day, maybe the mouse has any plan".

The ants then divided each other to go look for the mouse and report the unfortunate news of the benefactor to the mouse.. The mouse immediately brought the potato and cake stolen from a restaurant to the prison to feed the guy. He expressed his thanks. Then the whole family of rats pulled together to find pythons. When they were about to go to the python house, all the rats were afraid of eating python, so they climbed up the tall tree and called down: - "Old python! When the python came out, an old rat dared to come down and tell the story to the python. The python released a pearl that told the mouse to give it to the benefactor, saying: - "This pearl can be ground into a powder that can cure mute. Our benefactor can cure the princess and thereby escape the disaster. ".

When he got the gem, he called the jailer to tell him that he had a magic to save the princess from being mute. They brought him before the king. Sure enough, after the princess drank the jade water, she suddenly became able to speak, and her first sentence was to marry someone who saved her. The king greatly praised him, asking him how he got such a miracle drug.

The guy recounted the story. The king finished listening to the tongue: - "It's true that the human belly is more dangerous than the dangerous animals". The king immediately sent soldiers to arrest the unjust general to wait for the day of judgment. As for the guy who went fishing, the king made him a mandarin and married the princess. He lives a happier life than before.

Today, the phrase "Save things to repay, save people to return revenge" is used to mock those who take revenge for revenge, inferior to animals. The story strongly criticizes those who are ungrateful, unfaithful, and for the sake of money, forgetting about the morals, qualities and good traditions of our ancestors. At the same time, admonishing us or always willing to help others, will definitely be rewarded, like the main character in the story above.