New infectious diseases impose a serious threat to the health of the general public. Their origins are often mysterious despite intensive research efforts. Although human coronaviruses (CoVs) have been known as major pathogens to cause the common cold, a new species of coronavirus, namely SARS-CoV caused an epidemic involving 29 countries during 2002–03 which infected 8,098 people and killed 774 of them. The evidence shows that the virus might have originated from an animal coronavirus, but somehow entered the human population. Its also implies that animal coronaviruses outbreak could be a potential danger to humans.

Although it is still unknown exactly where the outbreak first started, many early cases of COVID-19 have been attributed to people who have visited the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, located in Wuhan, Hubei, China. The earliest known person with symptoms was later discovered to have fallen ill on 1 December 2019, and that person did not have visible connections with the later wet market cluster. However, an earlier case of infection could have occurred on 17 November. China publicly reported the cluster on 31 December 2019. The World Health Organization (WHO) issued its first report on the outbreak on 5 January 2020. On 12 January 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) confirmed that a novel coronavirus was the cause of a respiratory illness in a cluster of people in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, which was reported earlier. On January 20, the WHO and China both confirmed that human-to-human transmission had occurred. On 30 January, the WHO declared the outbreak a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC), after mounting evidence that the novel coronavirus had spread to 18 countries and completion of investigation in Wuhan.

Vietnam has a history of successfully managing pandemics: it was the second country after China to face SARS and, after 63 cases and five deaths, it was the first country declared SARS-free by the World Health Organization (WHO). In the wake of the SARS epidemic, Vietnam increased investments in its public health infrastructure, developing a national public health emergency operations center and a national public health surveillance system, maintaining robust systems to collect and aggregate public data. Since 2016, hospitals are required to report notifiable diseases within 24 hours to a central database, providing that the Ministry of Health can track epidemiological developments across the country. In collaboration with the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Vietnam implemented an innovative “event-based” surveillance program in 2018, empowering members of the public, including teachers, pharmacists, religious leaders, and even traditional medicine healers, to report public health events, in order to identify clusters of people who have similar symptoms that might suggest an outbreak is emerging.

With a population of nearly 100 million people, receiving millions of Chinese visitors each year has a long land border, and strong economic ties with China, which is Hanoi's largest trading partner, the country was initially perceived to be hit hard by the pandemic. When Vietnam recorded its two first confirmed cases on 23 January 2020, it was among the first countries affected by COVID-19. Two weeks later, only 150 cases had been reported outside of mainland China, but ten of these were in Vietnam, placing it in the top ten most affected countries. However, one year later the situation was very different: instead of having a large-scale outbreak, Vietnam was one of the countries with the lowest cases and mortality per million inhabitants.