The first two confirmed cases in Vietnam were admitted to Cho Ray Hospital, Ho Chi Minh City, on 22 January 2020. They were a Chinese man, born in 1954, and his son; the former had flown to Hanoi from Wuhan to visit his son who was believed to have owed the virus from his father when they met in Nha Trang on 17 January. The first cluster also appeared in Son Loi Commune, Binh Xuyen District, Vinh Phuc after a few workers returned from a training trip in Wuhan and infected other people in close contact with them. The Vietnamese government immediately locked down Binh Xuyen District until 4 March 2020 to prevent the disease from spreading all over the country. Having known cases early is one of the main reasons why Vietnam was successful in fighting the virus. For the first 16 cases of the disease, the medical staff had to treat different types of patients, including children, the elderly, and people with underlying conditions. This is like "an exercise" for the Vietnamese medical system in order to prepare and study the new virus.

When the pandemic spreads across the globe, the coronavirus cases in the country also surged, and on the evening of 6 March, the Hanoi Department of Health confirmed the first case in the capital, a 26-year-old woman who had traveled to Europe . This is the 17th case in Vietnam. On the afternoon of 20 March, the Ministry of Health announced 2 new COVID-19 patients, the 86th and 87th, who were two female nurses at Bach Mai Hospital with no history of contact with any COVID-19 patients. In March and April 2020, the number of cases increased rapidly due to the large number of people coming from European countries and the appearance of clusters such as Bach Mai Hospital, Ha Loi Commune in Hanoi, and Buddha Bar in Ho Chi Minh City.

After 21 March 2020, Vietnam suspended entry for all foreigners from midnight of 22 March and introduced concentrated isolation for 14 days in all cases of entry for Vietnamese citizens. From 1 April, Vietnam implemented quality isolation for 15 days. On the same day, former Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc announced the quality outbreak of COVID-19. The drastic epidemic control measures had positive results and the country did not confirm any cases of local transmission from mid-April to the end of July. Vietnam began loosening restrictions in May, including resuming domestic travel across the country.

The country entered the second wave of infection when the Ministry of Health announced the 416th case in Da Nang, which was the first case with an unknown source of infection in 99 days. On 28 July, the Da Nang authorities immediately locked down the city for 15 days. Hundreds of cases across the country with epidemiological factors related to Da Nang were furthermore detected, and the first death was also recorded on 31 July. After two months, by using the same strategies that have been used in the first outbreak, Vietnam has successfully contained the disease for the second time and has resumed almost all economic activities, including international commercial flights. Sporadic community infections continue during November and December, causing public scare and heightened measures.