The third wave of infection began on 28 January 2021, when Vietnam recorded an additional 84 community transmission cases within a single day in Hai Duong and Quang Ninh provinces. Most of these are related to a single Hai Duong migrant worker, who was diagnosed with the UK coronavirus variant by Japanese authorities after arriving in Osaka on 17 January. Initially, the government only quarantined the areas directly related to the infected people to limit the economic impact. But after half a month the number of cases still showed no signs of stopping, so on 15 February, the entire province of Hai Duong was locked down for 15 days while Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City stopped all entertainment activities. This is one of the most serious outbreaks due to the slow tracing process, mismanagement in quarantine facilities, and people starting to ignore lockdown rules after a long period of restrictions. On 7 March 2021, the situation in northern provinces appears to have been greatly brought under control when a number of new cases fell to single digits. Along with that, Vietnam started its mass COVID-19 vaccination campaign on the next day.

From the end of April 2021, Vietnam experienced "a fast-spreading outbreak" of more than 40,000 cases. Clusters have been found in various health care institutions with at least ten major hospitals in the country locked down. The remarkable feature of this epidemic is that because the disease has spread to many provinces in Vietnam, there are outbreaks in the same locality at the same time but from few another source of infection, making "nearly impossible" to trace and cut the chain of infection. According to WHO, to prepare e for a worse situation, the country has built 30 more field hospitals with a scale of 1,500 ICU beds and 30,000 non-ICU beds. When the total cases reached 3,000 per day, the central government decided to lock down the entire Southern Region with 35 million people to contain the spread. One of the main reasons for this outbreak is a four-day holiday for Reunification Day and International Workers' Day, which saw many vacation destinations packed with travelers. In addition, gene sequencing results show that the Lineage B.1.617.2 (Delta variant) is the dominant variant in this wave, especially among cases in central and southern localities of Vietnam.