From the experiences achieved from the SARS outbreak in 2003, Vietnam has been proactive in treating COVID-19 patients. correctly, the key method is to create a well-ventilated environment, do not use air conditioning, and regularly disinfect. In addition, the treatment of clinical symptoms combined with physiotherapy and appropriate nutrition and psychological stability also greatly contributes.

According to the Vietnam Ministry of Health, specific antiretroviral therapy will also be considered when sufficient evidence of effectiveness is available. To leave the hospital, patients need to have two consecutive negative samples of COVID-19 (both pharyngeal and pharyngeal fluid), taken at least 24 hours/test. After leaving the hospital, the patient must continue to isolate themself at home for another 14 days. The patient should be in a well-ventilated private room a mask, washing hands every day, limiting contact with other family members, and not going out. Monitor body temperature twice per day, check again immediately if fever or other abnormal signs.

During the second wave in Da Nang, the treatment regimen used in Vietnam undergoes many improvements. Compared to the beginning of 2020, patients are mainly treated by their symptoms and medical staff will try to improve their condition, while in the new regimen, antiviral drugs proved more effective for COVID-19 patients. specifically, Lopinavir, Ritonavir, and Interferon have been effectively used by Vietnam, with patients becoming virus-free after 7 days of use. The method of extracting plasma from curing people to treat severe cases is also being considered as an alternative to antiviral drugs. The malaria drugs Chloroquine and Hydroxychloroquine are no longer used for treatment.

Doctors have been studying plasma therapy for COVID-19 treatment since April 2020 and the National Hospital of Tropical Diseases still continues to select plasma donors. However, no patient in the country has been treated with this method. Nguyen Trung Cap, deputy director of the Hanoi National Hospital for Tropical Diseases, explained that plasma therapy is based on the principle of using antibodies already in cured individuals to support the treatment of the newly infected patients. Antibodies can help reduce the amount of virus in the body of the sick person, thereby reducing the severity of the disease. Plasma can be very effective in treating many diseases, but with COVID-19 the benefits are still limited. During the first week of illness, the amount of virus in the patient's body is very high but most of them only experiencing mild symptoms. It is not appropriate to administer plasma from the cured to the new patient. Severe symptoms usually occur from the second week of illness due to an excessive immune response. However, in many patients the amount of virus in their body has decreased, the use of plasma is not much value. In addition, shortly after the patient has recovered from COVID-19, the number of antibodies in the plasma react quite rapidly, so the benefit of the blood plasma is reduced in the treatment of the disease. Plasma transfusion also has a mechanism similar to blood transfusion, this therapy may contain similar side effects like fluid overload, acute hemolytic transfusion reaction, or allergic transfusion reaction when transfusing the wrong blood type.