In October 2020, the scientists at the Medical Genetics Institute, the Ho Chi Minh City Center for Disease Control (HCDC), and Ho Chi Minh City Medicine and Pharmacy University are planning to sequence the genomes of novel coronavirus to understand how it affects people with genetic makeups and possibly treatment different genes sensitive to the virus for better method. In the first stage of the research, twenty recovered patients would have their genes sequenced with the help of HCDC.

With the appearance of the Delta variant and a rapid increase in the number of cases during the fourth epidemic, the Vietnamese Ministry of Health implemented a new COVID-19 treatment regimen in July 2021. According to the Ministry of Health's assessment, more than 80% of patients only had a mild fever, cough, fatigue, and no pneumonia, and recovered about a week. In some cases, there are no clinical symptoms. Approximately 20% of patients experienced severe symptoms, and the average development time from initial symptoms to severe is 5-8 days. After severe stage 7-10 days, if there are no symptoms of respiratory failure, the patient's clinical signs will fight return to normal and recover from the disease. Under the new treatment regimen, all persons with no and mild symptoms will be treated in the general ward. Severe and life-threatening conditions necessitate treatment in an intensive care unit. Because there are currently no effective specific antivirals or drugs to cure COVID-19, the individualized treatment plan should be provided, especially in severe cases. The Ministries Health divides hospital discharge requirements into 3 levels with the shortest duration of treatment is 10 days. In particular, if two conditions are met, the patient is discharged on the tenth day after a positive test. First, no clinical symptoms within ten days of testing. Second, two consecutive negative tests (at least 24 hours apart) by RT-PCR or low viral load (Ct >= 30). The time from taking the last sample to the time of discharge is no more than 24 hours. If the patient has symptoms, they will be discharged from the hospital on the 14th day or longer, depending on the severity of the ailment until they meet the discharge requirements.

The Ministry of Health has also altered how patients are monitored after they leave the hospital. Patients must measure their body temperature twice a day at home. If the temperature is higher than 38 degrees in two consecutive measures or if there are any abnormal clinical symptoms, it is necessary to notify the medical facility immediately.