New virus strain
The newly acquired COVID-19 strain that entered Vietnam in the second wave has a mutation that increases the infection rates, leading to a high number of cases in the second wave. Nguyen Thanh Long, Minister of Health, said that this new strain was imported from outside of Vietnam. The epidemic may already have started in early July. Until August, Da Nang has gone through 4 cycles of infection.

The basic reproduction number (R0) in the second wave was 5 to 6, while in April this was only from 1.8..2.2. The rate of positive results of people who had indirect contact with COVID-19 patients is also higher than in the previous wave. Scientists point out that this strain of the virus is aggressive and capable of causing a transition to a serious condition more quickly. The health ministry sent the best experts to Da Nang to help the city contain the spread of the infection and to quickly identify the source of the infection. They also submitted the new strain's data to a world gene bank for comparison. On 4 August, the Ministry of Health confirmed that the strain of coronavirus in Vietnam in the second wave is D614G, also the dominant mutation wreaking havoc across the globe. A study published by the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico asserts that patients infected by that mutation actually have more viruses in their bodies, making them more likely to spread it to others.

In May 2021, Vietnam has detected a new mutation of the coronavirus that was a hybrid of strains first identified in India and the UK. More specifically, it is an Indian variant with mutations that originally belonged to the UK variant. Genetic sequencing found at least four COVID-19 patients in the country carry this mutation. This new mutation of the virus has yet to be named and viral cultures in the laboratory found it replicated itself very quickly. According to Le Thi Quynh Mai, Deputy Head of National Institute Of Hygiene And Epidemiology, they discovered the Y144 deletion on spike protein S of the B.1.617.2 variant. This mutation is similar to the one found on the B.1.1.7 variant.

As of 24 July 2021, Vietnam recorded at least ten coronavirus strains: the original Wuhan variant, the UK variant (Lineage B.1.1.7), B.1.222, B.1.619, Indian variant, South African variant, A.23.1 from Rwanda, CAL.20C variant, D614G coronavirus mutation and the new mutation discovered in the country.

Relapse

A Nha Trang CDC's laboratorian taking COVID-19 sample in July 2020.
Many COVID-19 cases in Vietnam have reported positive tests after they were supposed to have recovered from the disease. This also happened in other countries such as United States, South Korea, and China. Oh, Myoung-don, head of South Korea Central Clinical Committee for Emerging Disease Control rejected the possibility of "reinfection", assumption that the patients who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus, most likely due to "the testing kit collected RNA from the dead virus fragments, these may remain in the body for months".