Vietnam Deputy Minister of Health Nguyen Thanh Long also agreed with the above opinion, saying that maybe the patient has not recovered during the treatment process so the virus has not been eliminated and still exists in the body, especially in lung mucous cells.

In April 2021, the Ministry of Health decided to shorten isolation time at home to 7 days because it did not record community infections from relapse cases. Previously, Vietnam forced concentration quarantine from immigrants for 14 days in the isolation camp and 14 days at home. In July 2021, after consideration of 400 relapse cases, the Ministry of Health has not recorded any cases of community spread. Therefore, they abolished quarantine rules for relapse cases and their neighborhood.
Testing
See also: COVID-19 testing
On 30 January 2020, the Ministry of Science and Technology had a meeting with medical experts to propose solutions to contain and mitigate COVID-19. In the meeting, Deputy Minister of Science and Technology Pham Cong Tac assessed of diagnosticvirologists to accelerate the development tests. Starting in early February, publicly funded institutions in Vietnam developed at least four locally made COVID-19 tests that were validated by the Ministry of Defense and the National Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology. company, private companies including Viet A and Thai Duong offered the capacity to manufacture the test kits. Most confirmation laboratories where these tests are analyzed using in-house versions of WHO protocol, allowing tests to be administered widely without long wait times.

Early February 2020, a research team in the Institute of Biotechnology and Food Technology (Hanoi University of Science and Technology) just announced they had successfully developed test kits utilizing the RT-LAMP technology with a testing time of 70 minutes. On 3 March, the leader of the research team–Assoc. Prof. Dong Van Quyen, Deputy Director of the Institute of Biotechnology, Vietnam Academy of Science and Technology, announced that they had completed the research and development of a SARS-CoV-2 detection kit, based on RT-PCR and real-time RT-PCR . Two days later, the Vietnam Ministry of Science and Technology announced the result of investigating and manufacturing a biological kit to detect novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) conducted by Military Medical Academy, commercialized by Viet A Technology JSC.

The kit has been tested for sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and repeatability at the lab of Viet A Technology JSC. and Vietnam Military Medical Academy. The results show that the criteria are equivalent to the kit produced by the CDC and the World Health Organization. Independent testing at the Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology, evaluating patient samples, compatible with 5 types of common devices in medical facilities in the country, gave 100% accurate results in all of the tests. The kit detection time is about 2 hours. After being licensed by the Ministry of Health, 20 countries have ordered the test kit. The first four countries to receive kits will be Malaysia, Iran, Finland, and Ukraine, as of 17 March 2020.

In August 2020, the Ministry of Health approved the use of GeneXpert, a type of test that has been used by the Vietnam tuberculosis prevention network since 2012, for COVID-19 testing. According to Nguyen Viet Nhung, director of the National Lung Hospital in Hanoi, the test is similar to RT-PCR, gives accurate results within 35–45 minutes for both COVID-19 and tuberculosis, and could work automatically. Plans are underway to further expand the use of GeneXpert using 14,000 GeneXpert COVID-19 cartridges in 42..46 lung hospitals around the country. As of May 2021, Vietnam has 180 laboratories capable of testing for COVID-19 using RT-PCR with a maximum capacity of 238,000 tests per day. Health officials are currently preparing to extend testing capacity to more hospital laboratories including provincial and military hospitals, with further training ongoing, for preparedness in case of future widespread transmission. During the outbreak in Hai Duong, instead of mass testing on every person in the infected area, the authorities using different strategies including targeted testing of higher risk groups as well as random testing of households and inpatients. Testing capacity can also be increased with lower guidance issued on pooling of risk specimens, up to 10 specimens at most.