Expect $600 Federal Unemployment Checks Slashed To $400 Or Less
The $600 federal unemployment checks have been a critical lifeline for millions of Americans struggling from the economic devastation of the coronavirus pandemic; however, they have also been a lightning rod for criticism for being overly generous and creating a disincentive to work. With the enhanced unemployment benefits set to expire at the end of July, there is mounting pressure on Congress to make a decision about whether to extend the benefits as is, extend them at lower amounts, or replace them with another scheme, like a return- to-work bonus. Signals from key officials, especially Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin, point to a continuation of unemployment benefits, but at a much lower rate than $600 per week; most likely in the range of $300..$400 per week.
$600 Checks Have Been A Critical Lifeline
The $600 unemployment checks have been an essential lifeline given the swiftness and severity of the economic collapse. “Honestly, it was just what I needed, maybe even better,” Sarah Gordon, a musician and actor in New York City who has relied on the federal $600 unemployment benefits boost since losing her job in fitness, told Dylan Matthews of Vox. “After NYC rent (mine is a little below average for living by myself) plus bills and other expenses, it put me just even,” Gordon added.
Several academic studies have confirmed that the CARES Act benefits, including the enhanced unemployment benefits, were crucial to keeping Americans afloat. A team from Columbia’s Center on Poverty and Social Policy found that between 2019 and 2020, poverty rose 0.2 percentage points, from 12.5 percent to 12.7 percent; however, with the CARES Act stimulus, they calculated the poverty rate would have risen to 16.3 percent.
The Columbia study “in particular highlights the role of the $600-a-week boost to unemployment benefits,” according to Matthews. For example, among those who lost their jobs and received some stimulus - $1,200 stimulus checks - but not unemployment insurance, the poverty rate fell from 35.1 percent to 30.2 percent. However unemployment, for those who did receive benefits, poverty precipitously declined from 19.5 percent to 6.4 percent. “Right now, the safety net is doing what it’s supposed to do for most families — helping them secure a minimally decent life,” said Zachary Parolin, part of the Columbia research team. “Given the magnitude of the employment loss, this is really remarkable.”’
Terminating the $600 unemployment benefit at the end of July “would result in hardship for tens of millions of households, along with a large reduction in aggregate spending, given that the unemployment rate will likely remain at the highest level since the Great Depression and the economy will still be operating well below its potential,” a quartet of economists summed up.
A Disincentive To Work?
Republicans were irked by the inclusion of such generous benefits in the CARES Act and annoyed at Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin’s quick acquiescence to Democrats on the point. They quickly homed in on the benefits saying that they did not want to see them extended past July. Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican from South Carolina, was one of the most vocal and explicit, remarking that, "I promise you over our dead bodies will this [federal unemployment benefits] get reauthorized."
Republicans have that the benefits are so generous that they motivate people to stay home instead of returning to work. Many in the Republican caucus see the jobless benefits as "a disincentive to work — to come back to work," according to Senator Pat Roberts (R-Kansas). "It certainly does not have the backing that it had before because of many small businesses that have come forward and said that people just don't want to come back — that they were making more than they did when they worked," he said.
Examples Of Worker Pay:
Consider an example of a worker in Pennsylvania making $30,000 a year. The $30,000 annual salary would translate to $577 each week. If this worker lost her job, she could recoup roughly half of the paycheck via Pennsylvania unemployment benefits, which would be $288 per week.
However, with the $600 federal booster, this worker would now receive $888 per week ($288 in state benefits plus $600 in federal benefits), which is 53 percent higher than her $577 paycheck.
Because unemployment benefits are fragmented, it is hard to determine a break-even point; however, Chris Moran, a partner in the labor and employment practice group at Pepper Hamilton, told CNBC that the break-even is roughly $60,000 in Pennsylvania and about $45,000 in Florida.