Potential Replacement For $600 Unemployment Checks
Bipartisan Academic Proposal
The NBER paper cited earlier points to an issue if lawmakers continue to define the federal bonus as a flat dollar amount: Even providing an extra $300 instead of $600 would still leave 42% of all workers above full pay.
One way to avoid this to define the federal enhancement as a replacement rate instead of a flat dollar amount, which is what four powerhouse economists who have served in both Democrat and Republican administrations have proposed. Glenn Hubbard, Jason Furman, Timothy Geithner, and Melissa Kearney put forward a proposal published by The Aspen Institute, recommending that a new system provide federal unemployment benefits of up to 40 percent of covered wages, with a maximum benefit of $400.
“Optimal unemployment insurance requires balancing the desire to help households smooth their consumption against the moral hazard of unemployment insurance discouraging work,” the quartet wrote. “For workers making up to the median wage this would replace about 80 to 90 percent of their wages when combined with regular state replacement rates. The replacement rate would then decline for workers whose lost wages are above the median.”
While the academics' is cogent, because of the fragmentation in how unemployment is administered in 50 states and the archaic technology that is used, a replacement rate policy would be almost impossible to implement quickly. Local unemployment offices have said that it “might take as much as six to nine months to set up a wage replacement program,” according to The Hill.
Word From Washington
The extension of benefits is one of the crucial items to be hashed out when Congress returns from recess as well as one of the most contentious. White House advisor Stephen Moore said to expect a “battle royale” over the unemployment benefits.
Jeff Stein, the White House economics reporter for The Washington Post, has been speaking to Republicans and White House officials to suss out their approach to the unemployment benefits. “More people close to Senate Rs/WH are predicting the way this will work might be: (1) Cut the UI benefit to $300/$400 per week, then (2) supplement the lost income w/ another round of $1,200 checks. Unclear if GOP conservatives would go along with that though,” he recently tweeted.
This view has been substantiated by comments by different Trump administration officials. Yesterday, Larry Kudlow, Director of the National Economic Council, said that among the provisions that Trump publicly supports is “unemployment reform,” further evidence of the White House's desire to pare back the $600 in benefits, but still include them.
FOX Business’ Charlie Gasparino also spoke of the unemployment benefits as an area that is ripe for compromise. He noted that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is facing a lot of pressure from vulnerable GOP members of his party and that his discussions point to a compromise on “a phase out of the additional federal unemployment aid” and going from six [hundred] to three [hundred] or something like that over time.”
The Upshot:
Goldman Sachs economic research predicted last month that "it will be politically challenging to let the payment expire completely," saying payments would likely be lowered to about $300 a week. Given that there will only be several weeks to negotiate the next coronavirus bill and that unemployment benefits are set to expire before the end of July, it is likely that Congress will need to focus on an easy to implement solution.
Therefore, expect a provision that significantly mirrors the last big aid package, which includes a flat dollar unemployment benefit, instead of a more tailored replacement rate approach. For those receiving unemployment benefits the prospects may be ambivalent. While it appears that Congress will likely extend the enhanced federal unemployment benefits, the a rate will likely be much lower than what individuals are currently receiving, on the order of magnitude of $300..$400 per week.