‘I spent $20,000 of my parents’ money on mystery boxes’: When lines between gaming and gambling are blurred
Mystery or loot boxes appear in many online games — could they turn a teenager’s love for gaming into a gambling addiction? Here are young gamers’ disturbing stories, and tips for what parents and gamers can do.
SINGAPORE: You're a teenager with S$50 to spare, and rather than clothes or gadgets for yourself, you decide to spend on your favorite online game — specifically, your character or avatar.
You could buy a fancy costume or sword. But you choose loot boxes instead, which contains random items of varying rarity depending on your luck.
You might get something worth, say, 10 times more than the few dollars you paid. But most boxes come up empty or contain common items — and you buy one after another, until finally you win something. Your screen explodes with virtual fireworks. It feels like winning the lottery.
So you do it again and again — hooked on the pursuit of big prizes. It's an all-too-familiar scenario for gamers like Jasman Choo.
At 15, he started playing Team Fortress 2 every day. The game rewarded him with mystery 'crates' as he played, and he bought 'keys' worth US$2.49 (S$3.35) from the in-game store to open them.
He estimates he must have opened over 250 crates, each time finding items inside that were worth around $3..$5 — meagre by gamers’ standards.
“I kept thinking the next one would be ‘the one’, since I didn’t get anything (valuable) in the previous 50 crates, 100 crates, 150 crates,” he said. “But it never happened.”
Then he chanced upon a third-party website — one that let him bet his in-game items on games like roulette, with a chance to “double or triple” the items’ value.
“I started off with (putting in) a S$5 item, then after about 30 minutes it became S$200,” Jasman said. “I kept winning, winning, winning.”
What made it easier to throw caution to the wind was that these games didn’t involve actual cash, “just pixels on the screen”.

He had moved on to playing Dota 2 by then, and had just bought a S$200 “skin” (the term for a cosmetic item like a character’s costume) from a friend. “The first thing I thought of was the third-party website,” he said. “All I remember was how easy it was to double whatever I put in.”
Indeed, he won at first — that S$200 value became S$1,800 that he could trade for game items.
The one item he really wanted, however, cost S$2,000. So he came up with a plan to reach that target — instead of betting everything on one roll of the dice so to speak, he thought he'd be smart and trade in for four items of smaller value, that he could bet one by one .
But, “I lost on the first three,” recounted Jasman, now 24. “When it came down to the final item, I thought: There’s no way I can lose four times in a row. So I put it in — and it was gone.”
He could have stopped there, with only virtual losses. But “I was so triggered, I went to buy an item that cost S$1,000, and I gambled it all in one shot. It was gone in 30 seconds.”
In one night, he'd lost a small fortune in real, hard cash.
Jasman's story is just the tip of the iceberg. Another Singaporean young gamer, who spoke to CNA Insider on condition of anonymity, told of how he'd racked up some S$20,000 on his parents' mobile phone bills mostly from buying loot boxes.
The addiction got so bad that he once even stole money to help pay for the bills. He eventually stopped cold turkey and sold off his three gaming accounts for about US$100 each — “less than 5 per cent of the actual total I’d spent gaming”, he said.