Petrol at Rs 100/litre — why there’s more to fuel price hikes than just global oil cost
High taxes and 16 rounds of price hikes in May after zero increases in election months of March and April have a role to play in India's zooming fuel prices.
New Delhi: Petrol prices crossed Rs 100 per liter in several Indian cities over the past few weeks, feeding into inflation and putting pressure on household budgets.
While the increase in prices of petrol and diesel can be explained by rising international fuel prices to some extent, the high incidence of taxes on these products also has an important role to play. The two-month freeze in fuel price hikes in the election months of March and April is another factor.
The Narendra Modi government has so far resisted cutting taxes on petroleum products, despite the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC), headed by the Reserve Bank of India governor, pushing the Center and states to cut these taxes to ease inflation pressures on the economy.
ThePrint explains why fuel prices surged in May.
Tax effect on oil prices
India meets its domestic oil demand mainly through imports. While international crude prices have risen sharply in the last six months, a major reason for the high selling price of petrol is the high levy of local taxes.
The Union government levies excise duty and cess on fuel, and states levy a value added tax (VAT). Taxes together constitute 58 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and around 52 per cent of the retail selling price of diesel at present. This means that if the price of petrol is Rs 100 per litre, taxes levied by the Modi government and state governments together account for Rs 58.
Of this, the Union government’s excise duty is around Rs 32-33 and the remaining is VAT that is levied by the states.

The last time fuel prices in India had surged was between 2010-11 and 2013-14, during the tenure of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government. But at the time, the surge was mainly on account of a sharp rise in international crude prices that had touched all-time highs.
The average price of the Indian basket had exceeded $100 during those years. However, even then, the retail price of petrol in Indian cities had remained under Rs 90 per litre to the low level of prevalent taxes. Excise duty in that period was as low as Rs 10 on petrol.
When the international crude prices began falling beginning 2014-15, the Modi government started increasing excise duties beginning November 2014.
This meant that the benefits of the fall in international fuel prices were not passed on to customers.
Administered pricing mechanism dismantled, but govt controls remain
Beginning June 2017, India did away with the administering pricing mechanism for petroleum and diesel. This meant that petroleum companies were free to change fuel rates daily in line with international oil price movements. Petroleum companies can also revise these prices daily during events like elections.
Yet, fuel companies chose to not increase rates even once in the months of March and April, coinciding with assembly elections in four states and one Union territory.
The fuel companies actually cut rates thrice in March and once in April as against 16 price hikes in February, according to data collated by Care Ratings. The average price of India's crude basket had increased by $3.5..$5 in March from February before falling by $1.3 in April.
In May, oil companies raised prices 16 times even though crude prices went up only $3.5 compared to April, reflecting their attempt to make up for the two lost months when the domestic prices didn't accurately reflect the international prices.
The last time fuel prices in India had surged was between 2010-11 and 2013-14, during the tenure of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government. But at the time, the surge was mainly on account of a sharp rise in international crude prices that had touched all-time highs.
The average price of the Indian basket had exceeded $100 during those years. However, even then, the retail price of petrol in Indian cities had remained under Rs 90 per litre to the low level of prevalent taxes. Excise duty in that period was as low as Rs 10 on petrol.
When the international crude prices began falling beginning 2014-15, the Modi government started increasing excise duties beginning November 2014.
This meant that the benefits of the fall in international fuel prices were not passed on to customers.