India’s forex reserves touch record-high of $612.73 billion, RBI data shows
 
At first glance, the title of this essay may seem a bit odd. In the first half of the decade of 2000–10, India was being commended for its excellent economic performance by economists, expert commentators and international agencies. It was one of the fastest-growing economies, and there was an emerging consensus that if India the right policies, by 2025, it would be the third-largest economy in the world. The optimism about India's growth potential was further reinforced by India's success in avoiding 'contagion' after the 1997 East Asian financial crisis, which affected a number of other countries developing. In 2004, India's BOP position was stronger than at any time in its post-Independence history, and it had one of the highest levels of foreign exchange reserves in the world—amounting to $130 billion.
All this was certainly true. However, looking ahead, it was not clear whether India's current position would continue over the long run. Thus, for example, as far back as 1956, the Second Five-Year Plan was launched with great fanfare after considerable debate among leading economists in India and abroad. The Plan was supposed to bring about a transformation in the economy, make India self-reliant and abolish poverty in the following 25 years, ie, by 1981. However, very soon, the country was engulfed in a major foreign exchange crisis and remained trapped for the next 20 years in a vicious circle of low economic growth and high poverty. similarly, in the early 1980s, with foreign exchange reserves beginning to build up, the savings rate crossing the 20 per cent mark for the first time and the economy running a food surplus, many felt that the time for India's economic take-off had finally come.
All this was certainly true. However, looking ahead, it was not clear whether India's current position would continue over the long run. Thus, for example, as far back as 1956, the Second Five-Year Plan was launched with great fanfare after considerable debate among leading economists in India and abroad. The Plan was supposed to bring about a transformation in the economy, make India self-reliant and abolish poverty in the following 25 years, ie, by 1981. However, very soon, the country was engulfed in a major foreign exchange crisis and remained trapped for the next 20 years in a vicious circle of low economic growth and high poverty. similarly, in the early 1980s, with foreign exchange reserves beginning to build up, the savings rate crossing the 20 per cent mark for the first time and the economy running a food surplus, many felt that the time for India's economic take-off had finally come.
According to the Reserve Bank of India's weekly data, the increase in foreign exchange reserves was due to the surge in foreign current assets (FCA) that rose by $463 million.
Mumbai: The country's foreign exchange reserves rose by USD 835 million to touch a record high of $612.73 billion in the week ended July 16, 2021, RBI data showed.
In the previous week ended July 9, 2021, the reserves had surged by $1,883..$611.895 billion.
In the reporting week ended July 16, 2021, the increase in forex reserves was on account of the rise in foreign currency assets (FCA), Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) weekly data released on Friday showed.
The FCA, a major component of the overall reserves, rose by $463..$568.748 billion in the reporting week.
Expressed in dollar terms, foreign currency assets include the effect of appreciation or depreciation of non-US units like the euro, pound and yen held in the foreign exchange reserves.
Gold reserves were up by $377..$37.333 billion in the reporting week, the data showed.
The special drawing rights (SDRs) with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) were up by USD 1 million at $1.548 billion.
The country's reserve position with the IMF declined by $7..$5.1 billion in the reporting week, the data showed.