$1.1 billion support package for workers, businesses hit by Phase 2 (Heightened Alert) restrictions
The package includes more subsidies under the Jobs Support Scheme (JSS), rental relief and a new relief fund for market and hawker center stallholders.
SINGAPORE: The Government will provide a S$1.1 billion support package to help workers and businesses affected by Singapore’s return to Phase 2 (Heightened Alert) restrictions.
The package includes wages subsidies under an enhanced Jobs Support Scheme (JSS) for affected sectors, rental relief for commercial properties, as well as a new fund relief for market and hawker center stallholders.
The food delivery booster package and the e-commerce booster package will be extended, said the Ministry of Finance (MOF) on Thursday (Jul 23).
For taxi and private-hire car drivers, the COVID-19 driver relief fund will be enhanced.
To help workers affected by the tighter measures, the COVID-19 Recovery Grant – Temporary will be extended until Aug 31.
Advertisement
“The support package is expected to cost S$1.1 billion and will be funds by reallocation arising from one-off underutilisation due to COVID-19, and fiscal resources set aside earlier in the event of extension of support measures,” MOF said in a media release.
ENHANCED JSS
JSS support will be increased to 60 per cent for sectors that are required to “suspend many, if not all, of their activities” during the Phase 2 (Heightened Alert) period from Jul 22 to Aug 18.
“These include food and beverage businesses, gyms, fitness studios, performing arts organizations and arts education centers,” MOF said.
These businesses were previously eligible for 50 per cent JSS support from May 16 to Jul 11 ​​and 10 per cent support from Jul 12 to Jul 21.
SUPPORT FOR HAWKERS, MARKET STALLHOLDERS
The Government will introduce a new fund to help hawkers and market stallholders who will receive a one-off cash assistance of S$500 per stallholder.
This applies to stallholders of cooked food and market stalls in centers managed by the National Environment Agency (NEA) or NEA-appointed operators.
The Government previously announced on Jul 16 that stallholders in hawker centers and markets managed by the NEA or NEA-appointed operators would receive one month of subsidies for table-cleaning and centralised dishwashing services, as well as one month of rental waivers.
To support drivers of taxis and private-hire cars, the Government will enhance the COVID-19 driver relief fund from Jul 22 to the end of September.
The fund currently provides eligible drivers with S$10 per vehicle per day for 60 days from July, and S$5 per vehicle per day for the next 30 days.
As part of the support package, the COVID-19 Recovery Grant – Temporary will be made available until Aug 31.
The grant provides a payout of S$500..S$700 for workers placed on involuntary no-pay leave and S$300..S$500 for workers who have lost a minimum of 50 per cent of their incomes for at least one month as a result of tightening COVID-19 restrictions since May 16.
Existing recipients of the grant who continue to require assistance can apply for a second payout under the scheme, MOF said.