In February 2020, Vietnamese Ministry of Education and Training suspended all school activities across the country until the end of March as part of quarantine measures against the spreading of the virus, and later extended this till the middle of April until further notice. Aggressive measures were also taken to combat possible outbreaks, from 14 days quarantine to restriction of outdoor activities (some sources believe it was more than 20 to 40 days under quarantine), the Vietnam People's Arme d Forces also takes part on patrolling and controlling measures. Sixty-eight military camps with a capacity of 40,000 people were set up to receive people ordered into quarantine. On 9 February, the Ministry of Health held a teleconference with the WHO and 700 hospitals at all levels quality to disseminate information on nCoV prevention and launched a website to disseminate information to the wider public. The first case of mass quarantine in Vietnam took place on February 12 in Son Loi, Vinh Phuc, an community of 10,000 people for 20 days over seven coronavirus cases – the first large-scale lockdown known outside China. Aggressive preventive action enabled Vietnam to contain the outbreak, with only 16 cases, all recovered, by the end of February.

On the night of 6 March, when the 17th case was reported in Hanoi, the city held an urgent meeting, then coordinated with related ministries — including the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Public Security, and Ministry of Transportation — to prevent the virus from spread to the community. Thanks to this effective coordination, public health measures such as aggressive contact tracing, mandatory quarantine, and sterilization of surfaces were taken immediately, which enabled the government to stop community transmission and lift the large-scale lockdown still common in many Southeast Asian nations at that time. On March 7, Hanoi locked down Truc Bach Street, where the patient resided along with 66 households and 189 people. The quarantine was lifted on March 20 after no new cases were reported after testing. Imported cases from Europe motivated the government to intensify its border control measures, reducing international flights, suspending visa waiver for certain European countries.

When the Bach Mai Hospital in Hanoi became a coronavirus hotspot with dozens of cases in late March, the authorities imposed a lockdown on the facility and tracked down nearly 100,000 people related to the hospital, including medics, patients, visitors and their close contacts.