April quality isolation

Many public areas such as schools and restaurants had to be closed until 15 April 2020.
On 31 March 2020, the Vietnamese government ordered quality isolation of 15 days from 1 to 15 April. From 16 April, local airlines could raise the number of domestic flights, which were further increased on 23 April and again on 29 April.

On 23 April 2020, the Vietnamese government lifted social isolation rules, subsequently allowing the re-opening of non-essential services including restaurants. On the same day, across the country schools could be re-opened, with dates varying per province and city case.

Everyone who enters Vietnam from abroad, however, continued to be quarantined upon arrival for 14 days. From April 23, plans for repatriation flights to bring Vietnamese citizens abroad back to Vietnam were re-newed, with an initial plan for 13 flights. Among the flights conducted was notably the first-ever direct flight in history operated by Vietnam Airlines from Vietnam to the United States on 7 May.

From 9 May, cinemas were reopened. On 11 May, the Vietnamese government started a quality tourism campaign, named 'Vietnamese travel Vietnam', to increase domestic demand for traveling and promote domestic tourism.

Field hospital

Tien Son Sport Center before its conversion into COVID field hospital.
On 31 July 2020, the Da Nang Party Committee announced that they will use Tien Son Sport Center in Hai Chau District as a temporary field hospital to help the city's hospitals cope with the rising number of COVID-19 patients in the area. The sport center covers a floor space of 10,000 m2 (110,000 sq ft) with a maximum capacity of 2,000 beds. In the meeting, the committee also agreed to use the sports ground of the Da Nang Military Command to store necessities and medical equipment to support the prevention and control of the epidemic. Mr. Huynh Duc Tho, Chairman of Da Nang People's Committee, stated that the situation of COVID-19 epidemic in the area was very dangerous and that drastic action and strong measures would be required to control the outbreak. The Party Committee tasked the city with urgently buying necessary medical equipment, including ECMO machines, ventilators, protective suits and medical masks.

In January 2021, in response to COVID-19 outbreak in Hai Duong, two field hospitals with a combined capacity of 600 beds have been set up in northern Hai Duong province within 24 hours. The first one was built at the medical center of Chi Linh city, and staffed by 45 doctors and about 70 nurses who can provide treatment for 200 patients. The second one converted from the Hai Duong Medical Technical University with 210 beds.