Information technology application
The Vietnamese government using social media platforms to keep the public informed of COVID-19 news and instructions. Thong Tin Chinh Phu, the government's official Facebook page, provides nearly hourly updates on the country's pandemic situation. Zalo, a popular Vietnamese messaging app, has also evolved into a channel through which information can be quickly transmitted from authorities to the citizens. On 9 March 2020, the health declaration application named NCOVI was officially launched. After installing NCOVI application on smartphones, people enter full personal information as required to start using. Based on the data submitted, the health system will know the cases that need attention to ensure the fastest and most effective medical assistance.

In April 2020, Vietnamese cyber security firm Bkav launched Bluezone, an application that uses Bluetooth low energy positioning technology to detect people in close contact with infected people via smartphones quickly, and accurately. Smartphones with Bluezone installed can communicate with each other, record close contact at a distance of 2 meters, when and for how long to help users know and control patient contacts COVID-19. These app has drawn concerns about users information safety and their privacy. Gathering all citizens data in one place will make tracing disease easier and more efficient, but it also means that Bluezone, will know users contact whom, for how long, and when. From this information it can find out the social graph of the majority of people in the country.

In the proposal document on 8 May 2021, the Ministry of Information and Communications recommended the health authorities to use GPS tracker bracelets on passengers on some flights back to Vietnam. The idea of ​​a bracelet was introduced to solve the problem of managing quarantined people. A representative of the Authority of Information Technology Application said that if the person under quarantine leaves the place of residence, the ring will issue a warning. In addition, a warning signal will also be sent to the security agency if the wearer reluctantly removes it. The product is expected to be effective in managing people isolated at home, instead of having to go to quarantined facilities where most of the time are overloaded, helping to reduce the risk of infection. However in reality, the application of information technology in epidemic prevention still has many problems. For example in Ho Chi Minh City, COVID-19 outbreak has triggered a growing demand for a large amount of personal health declaration, but testing registration process in here still relies on verbal communication between local authorities and citizens without any online services. Each family is given a paper test registration form, which they must bring to the testing site after filled in all the information. Administrative procedures in Vietnam are sometimes only symbolically available online and people still have to go to the government buildings to complete the important parts. In Vietnamese society, there is a lack of digital readiness among the generations. People over 45 years old accounts for barely 10% of all internet users. Another severe issue shown by the COVID-19 pandemic is a lack of cooperation among several government agencies, as well as insufficient information synchronization between them.