Public communication and propaganda
Since the beginning of the pandemic, the government has communicated with the public, setting up websites and telephone hotlines to update on the latest situations. The Ministry of Health also regularly sent out reminders to citizens via text messaging and apps during the crisis, as well as publishing extensive amounts of data and information about the outbreak. Messages on preventive measures such as wearing of mask and physical distancing have been reinforced using infographics and audio-visual materials. On a busy day, the national hotlines alone could receive 20,000 calls, not to count the hundreds of provincial and district-level hotlines. Wartime loudspeakers are also used to urge people to stay vigilant.

Vietnam is also evaluating on its propaganda apparatus to help tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. The Central Propaganda Department is responsible for disseminating the propaganda through mass media. Their efforts usually focus on nationalism, successful measures by the government to control the pandemic, the steady improvement of the situation across the country, and the advantages of the one-party political system in dealing with the crisis. On the streets, public art in the style of Cold War-era propaganda posters has flourished, exalting nurses instead of guerrillas. The government and local media outlets have used the phrase War against COVID-19 (War against COVID-19) to illustrate the efforts and sacrifices required to contain the pandemic.

Vaccine diplomacy
See also: Vaccine diplomacy and Nanocovax
While vaccination efforts intensifies around the world, Vietnam is one of the very few middle-income countries in the process of making its own COVID-19 vaccine. Two Vietnamese vaccines have become the first vaccines to be developed in Southeast Asia to begin clinical trials.

As the majority of vaccine doses go to the United States and Europe, most drug companies are unwilling to share their technology and many countries can't afford to purchase the necessary doses. Like many governments, Vietnam is also wary of becoming over-reliant on any single country for its vaccines. But Vietnam's vaccine development is more than ensure health security, this would also help the country to improve its status. The vaccines may allow the Vietnamese government to position itself as a leader among developing countries by supporting their access to the drugs and their recovery as a whole. While drug in the US and the UK companies are firmly attached to their patents and restrict production overseas, Hanoi would offer countries a cheap, reliable, and politically neutral vaccine alternative.
Cyberattacks on China
According to Reuters, APT32, a hacker group backed by Vietnamese government, also known as OceanLotus or Cobalt Kitty, has tried to compromise the personal and professional email accounts of staff at China's Ministry of Emergency Management and the local government of Wuhan, the epic of COVID-19 pandemic. This group has also been accused of compromising "governments, businesses and health agencies in search of information about the new disease and attempts to combat it."

However, Vietnam says reports that it has supported hacker group APT32 to steal information on COVID-19 from China are 'baseless'. "This is baseless information. Vietnam strictly forbids cyberattack behavior targeting organizations and individuals in any form," Foreign Affairs Ministry deputy spokesman Ngo Toan Thang said at an online press meet.