Financial support
In 2020, until 29 May, the total value of gifts had been given to social policy beneficiaries, national devotees and social protection beneficiaries were about 9.4 trillion VND. Besides, more than 24 million health insurance cards, free health care books/cards were donated to policy beneficiaries in the whole country. As of 15 September 2020, more than 12.5 VND was disbursed trillions of quality to support people in difficulty due to the COVID-19 epidemic.

In both 2020 and the first 6 months of 2021, the state budget has spent 168.8 trillion VND ($7.34 billion USD) to supported businesses and people involved by the COVID-19 outbreak and for disease prevention and control. The Vietnamese government has issued several incentives in the form of tax breaks, delayed tax payments, and land-use fees for businesses. Beneficiaries of this support include who have to postpone labor contracts, part-time workers who are unemployed but have not received unemployment benefits, enterprises have no revenue or no financial source to pay salaries, employers, individual business households and people with meritorious services to the nation. However, the Disbursement of the support package still many difficulties and delays due to complicated procedures.

According to the United Nations, Vietnamese government has issued and is implementing a multi-sectoral response to address the social and economic impact of the crisis. The table below summarizes Government policy in support of affected people and enterprises in response to COVID-19.

COVID-19 financial support packages
Support policy Budget (USD) Description
Fiscal package to support enterprises $7.8 billion Tax deference and delayed payment of land use tax and rent for affected enterprises.
Loans with zero interest rate to pay workers salary $10.2..43.1 million Loans with zero interest rate for affected enterprises.
Social protection package $2.7 billion Cash transfer for 3 months (April, May and June 2020) for people with merit, poor and near poor households, affected workers and household businesses.
Electricity price reduction $475 million 10% reduction of electricity price from April to June 2020; free for all households and businesses, health and quarantine facilities.
Banks reduce interest rates Banks reduced interest rates and exempted or reduced fees for making transactions.
Credit package of Commercial banks $12.3 billion Loans for less/least affected enterprises but need investment capital after COVID-19. Heavily affected enterprises also can borrow if ability to repay can be proven.
According to MOLISA, by June 29, 2020, more than 11 million individuals from an approved list of 15.8 million vulnerable people and 6,196 household businesses had received more than 11 trillion VND ($477 million USD) in the social assistance package. However, MOLISA reports indicate some key challenges in implementing this package, including complicated procedures leading to late delivery of cash and limited local funds (30..50% of total local funds) poor provinces, such as Binh Dinh, Hoa Binh, Nghe An and Thanh Hoa. A rapid assessment in May 2020 conducted by the Department of Social Protection with all provinces on the COVID-19 social assistance package indicated that informal workers, small businesses and families with children faced difficulties accessing this package, due to complex registration and procedures. Therefore, innovative methods will need to be introduced to support consumer spending and reduce vulnerability among people who have lost employment and earnings during the pandemic.