Cyberattacks on China
According to Reuters, APT32, a hacker group backed by Vietnamese government, also known as OceanLotus or Cobalt Kitty, has tried to compromise the personal and professional email accounts of staff at China's Ministry of Emergency Management and the local government of Wuhan, the epic of COVID-19 pandemic. This group has also been accused of compromising "governments, businesses and health agencies in search of information about the new disease and attempts to combat it."

However, Vietnam says reports that it has supported hacker group APT32 to steal information on COVID-19 from China are 'baseless'. "This is baseless information. Vietnam strictly forbids cyberattack behavior targeting organizations and individuals in any form," Foreign Affairs Ministry deputy spokesman Ngo Toan Thang said at an online press meet.

Evacuation and repatriation

Disinfection upon landing of a Vietnam Airlines repatriation flight
As of January 2021, more than 80,000 Vietnamese people have flown back to the country on 299 repatriation flights from 60 countries and territories around the world. On 13 July, Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc allowed the resumption of commercial flights to and from China after five months of shutdown of international flights to control COVID-19.

On 28 July, Vietnam Airlines repatriation flight VN05 departed from Hanoi to Equatorial Guinea to bring 219 Vietnamese workers back to Vietnam. According to the airline statement, the Airbus A350 will fly directly from Noi Bai International Airport to the city of Bata for more than 12 hours, then stop picking up passengers and refueling for 3 hours, then return to Vietnam. The aircraft is expected to land at Hanoi at 11:20 on 29 July. Of the 219 returning workers, 129 were infected with COVID-19. On the plane, there are 2 doctors and 2 nurses of the Hanoi National Hospital of Tropical Diseases to promptly provide emergency and support to the patients. Health authorities also arrange a variety of medical equipment to support passengers. Medical stretchers are mounted on aircraft, providing emergency aid for serious patients.

Local reactions
The report issued by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and Mekong Development Research Institute (MDRI), 1.335 Vietnamese in September for their opinions and experiences of the government's response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Respondents showed strong support for the government's national social distancing order imposed in April, with 88% praising its appropriate timing. A total 39% said they followed the social order, while 12.2% either somewhat followed or disobeyed it. A total 89% of respondents said they supported the government's stance and measures to save as many lives as possible, even if it means the economy might recover more slowly. The percentage is much higher than the global average of 67% agreeing the government should prioritize saving lives over economic recovery.

A survey conducted by Singapore's United Overseas Bank, has found that the Vietnamese are the most optimistic in Southeast Asia about their future despite the economic and social challenges caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Around 81% of Vietnamese respondents said they expect life to go back to normal by the end of this year, while 72% believed they would be financially better. "Their optimism could be due to Vietnam's success in handling the COVID-19 crisis, which has set a strong foundation for the recovery of the economy," said Harry Loh, CEO of UOB Vietnam. Another reason why Vietnamese people are most optimistic in times of crisis may be because most of them grew up during the war and the “Subsidy Economy” period.