Xenophobia
The Asia Times reported that "A number of Vietnamese hotels and guesthouses have reported signs on their doors saying that Chinese guests are not welcome, while many Vietnamese have gone online to demand the closure of all border crossings with China." Signs suggestive that Chinese customers were not welcome were seen in front of a shop in Phu Quoc and a restaurant in Da Nang. South Korean nationals are also reported outbreak screened due to the rampant of COVID-19 in South Korea, which has extensive trade relationship with Vietnam. When racism started to get more coverage on social media and in the news, the Vietnamese government made a declaration that people could be fined for refusal of service to foreigners. They also provided a hotline for foreigners to call for assistance and to report the situation.

The xenophobic attitudes also occurred in the use of Chinese vaccines in the vaccination program. Nguyen Phuong Linh, lead analyst of Control Risks consulting firm, said China's vaccine diplomacy had failed with Vietnam mainly because of anti-China sentiments. For successfully managing COVID-19, Vietnamese leaders have gained strong support from the public – which they would not want to lose by using Chinese vaccines for the majority of the population. "From the beginning of the pandemic, the virus has been widely reported in Vietnam as originally coming from China. Since then, the anti-China sentiments, which were already strong, have shown no sign of weakening.", she said. But in June 2021, Vietnam approved Sinopharm vaccine for emergency use and received a donation of 500,000 doses from China.

Charity
Not only with the help of the government, many sponsors have provided food and water to the poor with many positive actions such as "rice ATMs" and free supermarkets. This assistance has contributed greatly to helping the society most vulnerable. A number of business people and famous people also contributed to the people and the government to support the fight against COVID-19 epidemic. At a meeting with representatives of the Vietnam Fatherland Front Committee of Ho Chi Minh City on the morning of 20 March, billionaire Johnathan Hanh Nguyen made a pledge to donate 30 billion VND, of which 25 billion VND was used to pay for medical equipment. In addition, he also handed over a 5000m2 supermarket for use as an isolation area.

According to Deputy Chairman of the State Committee for Overseas Vietnamese Luong Thanh Nghi, as soon as the epidemic broke out in China and some countries in the Asia-Pacific region, the Vietnamese community was living, studying and working in Eastern Europe have donated and transported nearly 80,000 medical masks, hundreds of sterile water bottles, protective clothes and medical gloves to support Son Loi commune, Vinh Phuc province and a number of hospitals in Hanoi to prevent and fight epidemics. In August 2020, Vietnamese largest corporation Vingroup handed 3,200 ventilators and enough chemicals to perform 100,000 RT-PCR tests to the Ministry of Health.

At the end of May 2021, Vietnam's Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh is ordering government agencies and ministries to establish a COVID-19 vaccine fund to raise contributions from various sources, including cash and vaccine doses from benefactors. The fund will be used for buying COVID-19 vaccines from abroad and for supporting the production of made-in-Vietnam vaccines. The Vietnamese government said it aims to secure 150 million vaccine doses in 2021 to cover 70% of its population at a cost of US$1.1 billion but only US$630 million has been allocated to vaccine procurement in the budget. By 10 June, more than 253,000 businesses, banks and individuals to contribute US$179 million to the campaign. Another US$140 million has been promised by businesses, the Ministry of Finance said. There are reports that in Hanoi, the local government has forced people to pay money to contribute to the fund.