Disobedience of quarantine rules
Although the authorities have put in place mandatory measures to prevent the spread of disease, there are some people still escaping the quarantined area or dishonest reporting about their symptoms, these actions caused serious consequences to the public. In March 2020, the first patient in Hanoi (patient #17) did not provide an accurate travel history, which made it difficult for immigration officers to know she had traveled through and so that she could avoid concentrated quarantine. This lack of responsibility has caused many people to be infected, making hundreds of people in the neighborhood and a hospital placed under quarantine, putting stress on the city health system.

Anger was also reported due to the increasing number of infected cases coming from the Muslim community returning from Malaysia following their attendance of the Tablighi Jamaat festival in Sri Petaling mosque, and two to three patients did not obey the self-quarantine law in Vietnam and still attended Islamic events in Ho Chi Minh City, leading to fury and demands to imprison the Muslim population, even among Vietnamese celebrities.

A 28-year-old Vietnam Airlines attendant known as patient 1342 breached self-isolation protocols when going outside and studying at a university. He infected his friend, a 32-year-old English teacher, breaking Vietnam's 88-day streak without community transmission. The teacher went on to infect at least two others, his one-year-old nephew and a 28-year-old student. The attendant said he left home in Tan Binh District at noon on 21 November to have dinner in Phu Nhuan District then visited HUTECH University in Binh Thanh District. The university has since been locked down and its students were requested to stay home. According to the director of Ho Chi Minh City health department, patient 1342 not just violated the rules of self-quarantine at home, but also of the Vietnam Airlines quarantine facility. He had intruded into the space of another flight crew and confirmed the virus from another attendant who had been as patient 1325 on 26 November. Under the health ministry's directions, the Vietnam Airlines quarantine facility was closed. Ho Chi Minh City police has opened a criminal investigation into the Vietnam Airlines flight attendant's breach of COVID-19 quarantine protocols. He has been suspended from his job and faces possible dismissal, while his company will be inspected for compliance with disease prevention regulations, quarantine processes and supervision at quarantine facilities.

Frauds
On 3 March 2020, a warehouse containing nearly 1 million masks of unknown origin were discovered after the inspection by the police in Tan Phu District, Ho Chi Minh City. Many other cases involving masks of unknown origins, unexpected cases, stored and traded have been detected, prevented and charged in time, such as in An Giang, Lang Son Cao Bang, and Quang Ninh, many other cases of production fake mask, illegal transportation of medical supplies abroad, also including collection and sale masks or used masks to the public.

On 17 April 2020, at the meeting of the Steering Committee on COVID-19 Prevention and Control of Hanoi, Mr. Nguyen Duc Chung, Chairman of Hanoi People's Committee said that the Investigation Police Department on Economic, Corruption Crimes and Smuggling (C03) of the Ministry of Public Security invited some officials of the Hanoi Center for Disease Control (HCDC) to the investigation about the purchase process of the COVID-19 testing machine. On April 22, 2020, investigator decided that Mr. Nguyen Nhat Cam, director of the Hanoi CDC, and his acccomplices had raised the purchase price for a COVID-19 test kit package using the real-time PCR system by three times. the Investigation Police Department issued a decision to arrest him and six more people on charges of counterfeit buying COVID-19 testing machines. They were probed on charges of violating regulations causing serious consequences, the mastermind of which has faced 10 years in prison.