Labor export and illegal immigration
Because Vietnam is a country with a huge number of people working in labor export market, many Vietnamese families depend on Remittances from their abroad relatives. That figure is around $17 billion USD in 2019, but is expected to drop by 7.6% by 2020 - the first drop in an 11-year chain of growth, according to World Bank statistics, which comes from the fact that few workers leave the country than before the pandemic. According to the Overseas Labor Bureau, about 54,300 workers left Vietnam to work abroad in the first eleven months of 2020 - a sharp decline from 148,000 people in 2019. Phung Duc Tung - Director of the Mekong Development Research Institute, which specializes in labor and migration issues in Vietnam and other issues - said that the biggest challenge for overseas workers when they returned is losing their jobs and income in the country they are working in, due to lack of official information about the repatriation date and plan from their government. "This led to psychological problems, depression, pessimism, and there was a suicide case when he returned to Vietnam." Tung said, referring to a Vietnamese driver who ended his life in the quarantine facility. He helped a group of undocumented Chinese to enter for US$260 per citizens and he believed to be facing financial problems resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic.

Strict government measures have left many citizens trapped abroad. To bring them home, since the end of April 2020, Hanoi has organized repatriation flights or charter flights, the flight which passengers have to pay high price for their tickets. According to government data, in the past eight months of 2020, about 65,000 Vietnamese people have been repatriated through 235 such flights. But while the initiative is well-intentioned, it may not be enough to satisfy demand from overseas Vietnamese. This led to many illegal attempts to go home despite facing criminal charges. In some of the cases, illegal entities tested positive for COVID-19 after living for a long time in the community. The Vietnam Border Guard had detained more than 31,000 illegal entrants in 2020, including 25,000 from China, the rest are from Laos and Cambodia.
YTN News incident
On 24 February 2020, a group of 20 South Korean visitors arrived in Da Nang on a flight from Daegu which was South Korea's COVID-19 epicentre.

When being informed about the isolation for monitoring by local authorities, some people in the group refused. They were temporarily kept at the Da Nang Lung Disease Hospital before boarding a flight sponsored by the Vietnamese government back to South Korea the following day.

After receiving complaints from few South Korean about the quarantined area, YTN has broadcast a controversial news report that Korean citizens are being "detained" under poor conditions. old, the people who appeared in the video said that even without any symptoms of coronavirus, they were still "detained" in a locked room, and not provided with adequate meals. Notably, this news also criticized the small isolation room, containing 2.3 people.

Immediately after broadcasting and posting the news video on YouTube, YTN received a backlash from Vietnamese netizens. Some people demand the news agency to apologise for posting false information. Under pressure from netizens, on 2 March, on their official website, YTN News had to publish an apology about the incident. In the statement, YTN stressed that they would continue to tell the truth and protect South Korean citizens, but at the same time be more careful with broadcasting style to avoid misunderstandings, especially regarding cultural differences.