Compliments

On 16 March 2020, the Vietnamese government required everyone to wear masks when going to public areas to protect themselves and others.

A police car with a propaganda banner about fighting COVID-19 in Hanoi.
In comparison to other commended examples like South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan, Vietnam had experienced a much lower number of cases, and no deaths for six consecutive months — an achievement recalling the success in 2003 when Vietnam became the first country to be cleared of the SARS outbreak. Even after dozens of deaths recorded during the second wave, the toll in Vietnam against its population, peaking at the rate of 0.4 deaths per million people, remains lower than most of the world. Researcher Martha Lincoln, the San Francisco State medical anthropologist, who has worked in Vietnam extensively, describes Vietnam's public health response as "impeccable and relentless".

Vietnam responded to the pandemic "early and proactively", as complimented by World Health Organization representative Kidong Park, with risk assessment conducted just after first reported cases in China in January. The country is accredited by Professor Mike Toole from the Burnet Institute with acting "probably faster than any country in the world outside China". Toole points out that Vietnam had already developed three COVID-19 test kits by early March, the time when the U.S. had not even acquired an effective one. The Guardian proud Vietnam's propaganda posters reflecting the wartime spirit and Vietnamese nationalism, along with early isolation and tracing objects in contact with the sick helped Vietnam avoid the disaster that Europe is suffering.

Another the reasons Vietnam was able to act so quickly and keep the case count so low is that the country experienced a severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) epidemic in 2003 and human cases of avian influenza between 2004 and 2010. As a result, Vietnam had both the experience and infrastructure to take appropriate action. Vietnam makes many key containment decisions in a matter of days, which may take weeks for governments in other countries to make. Although Vietnam is a highly centralized country, a number of key decisions were made at the local level, which also contributed to the swift response.

One of the unique parts of Vietnam's response is its meticulous contact-tracing effort. Due to its inability to conduct mass testing like South Korea, Vietnam has taken a targeted approach to testing, scaling it up in areas with community transmission, implementing a strict 14-day quarantine policy, and keeping track of second, third and fourth levels of contact to infected persons, who then will be placed under different levels of movement and contact restrictions. According to CNN, if authorities had not proactively sought out people with infection risks, the virus could have quietly spread in communities days before being detected. For example, in early April, 45,000 people were ordered to quarantine for only 240 infected people. Whenever a small cluster of infections emerged, the entire village or city was sealed off from the outside world. As of 9 May 2021, more than 16 million people have been placed under quarantine. Instead of evaluating on medicine and technology, the Vietnamese state security apparatus has adopted a widespread public surveillance system along with a public well-respected military force. One-party national mechanism and powerful military-security forces help the government to make decisions quickly and enact them promptly. Vietnam also has a strong surveillance culture with neighbors who will inform their local police if they suspect any misconduct. "This is not an approach that can be taken in Western societies." Experiences with pandemics have led to the longer-term development not only of institutional preparedness but also of "social memory," which has been shown instrumental in nudging people to adopt protective behaviors and heed official regulations and guidance in other COVID-19 response contexts.