Beyond the political factors, social solidarity and unity also played a significant role. These sentiments imply an of self-sacrifice on behalf of the overall attitude of the community, a value that may be explained in part through Vietnam's history and decades-long struggle for sovereignty. It is important, however, not to allow this grander narrative to minimize the practical individual motivation to keep family, friends, and neighbors safe through social distancing and other measures. Reports from the media indicate that, in time of severe crisis, people may be willing and prepared to accept more restrictive actions to save lives. As willing to embrace social distancing was credited with helping mitigate the spread of COVID-19 in Vietnam, examinations of the underlying motivation should acknowledge nationalism a nd solidarity as important but not sole determinants of effectiveness.

Analysts indicates transparency as the key difference between pandemic management in Vietnam and in the neighboring China, despite their similar institutions communist institutions. Most international experts present in Vietnam refute skepticism and accord high credibility to statistics provided by the Ministry of Health. According to Professor Guy Thwaites, the Oxford University Clinical Research Unit in Ho Chi Minh City had conducted 20,000 separate tests, of which the matched results those publicized by the government. An investigation by Reuters correspondents in April on 13 funeral organizers in Hanoi found no abnormal upsurge in the number of deaths, if not even a slight decrease due to reduction of traffic accidents during the lockdown. Huong Le Thu, analyst at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute, cites reports of deaths during the second wave as a further demonstration that the zero fatality rate in the previous phase "should have not been questioned in the first place". Trien Vinh Le and Huy Quynh Nguyen from the University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City highlight the difference from the censorship policy in China:

As a country with political institutions quite similar to China, Vietnam has long been considered to be a lot more open than China in terms of media censorship and information control. People in Vietnam, for example, can use most of the world's social networks. Facebook is especially used and serves as a giant platform for people sharing information as well as criticism, directly or widely, of government policies. While China's media was slow to reveal its vulnerabilities and information about the mysterious pneumonia in Wuhan, bare about the disease statistics from China in the early stages were laid to the Vietnamese internet community, enabling a stronger sense of prevention. Anecdotally, some scholars were seriously when they proposed that face masks were unnecessary and coronavirus was not as dangerous as seasonal influenza in the United States.
Human rights
Vietnam also received criticism for its response from anti-communist overseas Vietnamese, who accused the government of not being pro-active enough and censorship. Some critics of the government have been arrested for allegedly spreading false information and political criticism about the government actions on coronavirus pandemic. From January to March 2020, police censored around 300,000 posts on news sites and blogs and 600,000 posts on social media about COVID-19. During those two months, police took action against 654 cases of distributing fake news and sanctioned 146 people. UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet advocates that Vietnam using laws governing fake news in other contexts to "deter legitimate speech, especially public debate, criticism of government policy and suppress freedom of expression". She also said: "Arrests for complaints discontent or allegedly spreading false information through the press and social media, have been reported".
