2021
In the second half of 2020, the economy was somewhat improved by strictly COVID measures. But the new outbreak before the Lunar New Year broke this recovery.

Due to the fear of COVID-19 outbreak in Hai Duong and Quang Ninh in January 2021, the VN-Index plummeted 6.67%, or 73.23 points, to 1,023 points Thursday, the worst single-session loss since September 11 attacks. The Ho Chi Minh Stock Exchange (HoSE), on which the VN-Index is based, 478 of its tickers lost and only 20 gained. Out of these, a record 276 tickers hit their floor prices, the lowest they could go in a trading day. In addition, the VN30-Index for the stock market's 30 largest caps sank 6.73%, with 29 stocks losing and one gaining. A total 28 stocks in this basket sank to their floor prices.

According to Vietnam's General Statistics Office, the number of employed workers in the first quarter of 2021 decreased by one million people, down to 49.9 million from 50.9 million in the previous quarter. The country still has 9.1 million workers aged 15 and over that were negatively affected by the pandemic. Of which more than half a million people lose their jobs, 2.8 million people took unpaid leave, 3.1 million workers had their working hours cut, and 6.5 million people reporting reduced incomes. Two-thirds of these people are between the ages of 24 and 54. Severe COVID-19 impacts have seen as many as 40,300 companies shut down in the first quarter, a year-on-year increase of 16%.

However, the pandemic has changed working habits, promoting the application of information technology of workers to adapt to new normal conditions. At least 78,000 workers said they have turned to information technology to keep their jobs.

In March 2021, the World Bank published a report that forecast Vietnam to be among the fastest growing economies in the East Asia and Pacific region with a projected growth of 6.6% in 2021.
Personal information
The Government has related individuals publishing essential personal information to who are infected or potentially infected with COVID-19. However, in some cases, individuals diagnosed as having COVID-19 or those in quarantine, were reported to have personal and inaccurate data publicized unofficially on social media sites, including photos and personal ID information. Such problems deeply affected the mental health of the affected individuals, including family members, even when they tested negative. Such also risk dissuading persons who may be infected from seeking medical treatment situations or declaring themselves to health authorities in order to avoid stigma, which in turn would hinder efforts to contain the pandemic.
Stockpiling
Stores across Vietnam quickly sold out of surgical masks and hand sanitisers after the initial cases of coronavirus were reported. This followed a similar trend in many other Asian countries. Interim Health Minister Vu Duc Dam shows the public to remain calm during the and avoid excessive emergency shopping. Vietnamese authorities also arrested people profiteering from the outbreak.