Like most of the world's economy, Vietnam was hit hard by the outbreak because of the slowdown of private and national industries, the downturn of stock exchanges, and the lower number of incoming tourists, making hundreds of thousands of people struggling to find jobs and are evaluating mostly on unemployment benefits to survive. According to government figures, 3,000 businesses have closed in the first two months of 2020. However, Vietnam's economic growth is expected to be higher than the Asia average of 2.2%. Despite the deceleration in economic activity and the downside risks posed by the pandemic, Vietnam's GDP growth rate is still to remain one of the highest in Asia-Pacific Region, according to Asian Development Bank report.[334][335][336] In November the IMF assessed that Vietnam was expected to be the only country in South East Asia that was expected to grow in 2020.

Vietnam Industry Agency says manufacturing industry processing is in short supply of raw materials and components (mostly imported from Japan, China, South Korea) leads to the risk of stopping many factory operation. According to the survey conducted by the Vietnam Chamber of Commerce and Industry (VCCI) and the World Bank with the participation of nearly 10,200 enterprises (nearly 85% from domestic private, the rest are from FDI sector) about the impact of COVID-19. The survey results showed that the biggest difficulties for businesses during the pandemic are accessing customers, cash flow, labor and supply chain. At the announcement of the report on the morning of 12 March 2021, Mr. Dau Anh Tuan, Head of the VCCI Legal Department assessed that the pandemic in general had a very negative impact on Vietnam's businesses.

In total, 87.2% of enterprises participated in the survey said that they are negatively affected, 11% are not and only 2% recorded positive growth rates. Businesses that have been operating for less than 3 years, small and micro-enterprise are struggling the most. In terms of sectors, private enterprises in some industries have the highest rate of negative impacts are garment (97%), information and communication (96%), and electrical equipment manufacturing (94%). Some industries have lower rates of impact but still fluctuate around 80% such as real estate and mining. For the FDI sector, businesses in real estate, information and communication, agriculture and fishery have a large impact, over 95%.

In addition, to withstand the pandemic, 35% of private enterprises and 22% of FDI enterprises have had to lay off their employees. In which, 36% of small and micro private enterprises, 26% of medium-sized enterprises and 32% of large-scale enterprises implemented this measure. The Vietnam General Statistics Office said export turnover reached US$99.36 billion, down 1.7% year-on-year. Meanwhile, import value reached US$97.48 billion, down 3%, Vietnam's exports to the EU and ASEAN fell 12% and 13.4%

The International Monetary Fund is projecting Vietnam's economic growth at 2.4% in 2020 at a time when economies of most countries in the world are shrinking. Vietnam's growth was "among the highest in the world, thanks to its decisive steps to contain the health and economic fallout from COVID-19", IMF mission chief Era Dabla-Norris said. VCCI emphasizes that COVID-19, besides the negative effects, it also offers Vietnam an opportunity to develop the economy when major partner countries such as Japan, the US, the EU, Australia, etc., are looking for a place to transfer a part of their supply chain out of China. With a number of new-generation free trade agreements such as CPTPP and EVFTA, those will help the country to diversify its economic and trade relations, also create favorable conditions for Vietnamese businesses and attract investment to the priority industries and sectors.