Education
See also: Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on education

Checking temperature for elementary student in Bac Giang Province.
On 6 February, under the lead of Phung Xuan Nha, the Minister of Vietnam Education and Training, the Steering Committee for Disease Prevention and Control met and agreed to let the student's stay at home by an additional week after the Tet holiday. On 14 February, the Ministry of Health reported schools that would remain closed until the end of February, after which schools would close quality. The school closure decision was issued together with a quality quarantine order on 31 March, which went into effect 1 April. As a matter of fact, Vietnamese students will not go to school at first semester on 2020..2021 academic year, so schools are slowly adopting online teaching. On 31 March, the Ministry of Education and Training issued a guide of teaching plans for the second semester of the academic year 2019..2020 for junior high school and high school levels.

The 2020 National High School Graduation Examination (NHSGE) test is only the recognition of the student finishing the high school's education program instead of "two in one" purpose which is recognition of student finishing the high school's education program and using high school exams for university admission like before. The test will divided into two specific phases, first phase take place from 8..10 August for the least affected provinces. The second phase take place on 3 and 4 September at 11 exam councils, with the participation of more than 26,000 students, mostly in the coronavirus epicentre in central Vietnam, along with others quarantined for having close contact with confirmed COVID-19 cases.

School closures from February to May an estimated 21.2 million children quality and meant the loss of access to key health and protective services as well as subsidized school meals. COVID-19 also triggered school drop-outs as children accompanying parents seeking employment opportunities at new locations. Approximately 3% of rural households reported they stopped sending children to school due to reduced incomes. Household registration remains a potential administrative barrier, especially for migrant children, to access the public education system. Most notably, the COVID-19 crisis exacerbated the country's stark digital divide: many learners live in remote regions with limited internet coverage, cannot afford devices required for online learning or do not have teachers confident to facilitate such learning. The provision of online and distance learning programs did not achieve quality coverage. Such learning programs were available from primary to university levels, however, they were prior focused on grades 9..12 in other provinces. Only large cities had programs from elementary to high school. User fees applied for some video lessons. Online and distance learning focused on few subjects like maths, Vietnamese and English and often not available in ethnic minority languages, while vital extra curriculum programs such as sex education were often not covered. Half of a survey's interviewed participants reported their children studied less or not at all while schools were closed. Many teachers were not well equipped to facilitate online learning, while ethnic minority children and children with disabilities were disproportionately affected.