2021 Instagram Hashtag Guide: How to Get More Reach
Instagram hashtags can make or break your Instagram strategy. Use them correctly and you'll get your posts seen by more people.
Instagram hashtags can make or break your Instagram marketing strategy. Use them correctly and you'll get your posts seen by more people are likely to be interested in your products or brand.
But use the wrong and you can actually do damage, from annoying potential followers to get penalized by Instagram’s algorithm.
To use hashtags for Instagram effectively, you need to understand exactly how they work, and put some thought into a strategy.
You're in the right place to do just that.
What are Instagram hashtags?
A hashtag is a combination of letters, numbers, and/or emoji preceded by the # symbol (e.g., #NoFilter). They are used to categorize content and make it more discoverable.
Hashtags are clickable. Anyone who clicks on an Instagram hashtag or conducts an Instagram hashtag search will see a page showing all the posts tagged with that hashtag.
Why use Instagram hashtags?
Hashtags are an important way to expand your Instagram audience and get more reach. When you use a hashtag, your post will appear on the page for that hashtag. If you use a hashtag on your Story, it could be included in the relevant hashtag Story, which also appears on the hashtag page.
People can also choose to follow hashtags, which means they could see your hashtagged post in their feed even if they don't follow you (yet).
Instagram hashtags can be a great way of building community online so people are motivated to engage with your brand. For example, as the way people work out suddenly changed in 2020, Nike Los Angeles used the #playinside hashtag to feature local people getting active in their homes.
Types of popular Instagram hashtags
Instagram breaks hashtags down into nine distinct types:
Product or service hashtags: These are basic keywords to describe your product or service, like #handbag or #divebar
Niche hashtags: These get a little more specific, showing where you fit in the context of your industry, like #travelblogger or #foodblogger
Industry Instagram community hashtags: Communities exist on Instagram, and these hashtags help you find and join them. Think #gardenersofinstagram or #craftersofinstgram
Special event or seasonal hashtags: These can refer to real holidays or seasons, like #summerdays, or they can be used for all those National [Thing] Day holidays, like #nationalicecreamday or #nationalnailpolishday
Location hashtags: Even if you geo-tag your Instagram post, it can still be a good idea to include a hashtag that refers to your location, like #vancouvercraftbeer or #londoneats
Daily hashtags: Every day has plenty of its own hashtags, from #MondayBlues right through to #SundayFunday. We create a whole list of daily hashtags for you to choose from if you're looking for an easy source of hashtags to add to your posts.
Relevant phrase hashtags: These hashtags combine elements of product hashtags, niche hashtags, and community hashtags. Basically, they're people phrases use on Instagram to connect to existing communities in a slightly insider way, like #amwriting or #shewhowanders
Acronym hashtags: Perhaps the best-known acronym hashtag is #TBT for Throwback Thursday. Other popular acronym hashtags include #OOTD for outfit of the day, #FBF for flashback Friday, and #YOLO for you only live once.
Emoji hashtags: These hashtags can include emojis on their own, like #????, or words or phrases with emojis attached, like #sunglasses????.