How to Use Hashtags in 2021: A Quick and Simple Guide for Every Network
Do you know how to use hashtags? How about how not to use hashtags? Read on for all the DOs and DON'Ts before you get started.
What is a hashtag?
A hashtag is a word or phrase preceded by the pound symbol.
On social media, it serves as an indication (for users and algorithms) that a piece of content relates to a specific topic or belongs to a category.
Hashtags help make content discoverable in on-platform searches and, effectively, reach more people.
Hashtag basics
They always start with # but they won't work if you use spaces, punctuation or symbols.
Make sure your accounts are public. Otherwise, the hashtagged content you write won't be seen by any non-followers.
Don't string too many words together. The best hashtags tend to be relatively short and easy to remember.
Use relevant and specific hashtags. If it is too obscure, it will be hard to find and it won't likely be used by other social media users.
Limit the number of hashtags you use. More isn't always better. It actually looks spammy.
Why use hashtags?
Increase engagement with your followers
Including hashtags in your posts means taking part in a conversation happening on that social media platform. And most importantly, it makes your posts visible in that conversation.
This can lead to greater engagement, boosting your brand's social media engagement through likes, shares, comments, and new followers.
Build brand awareness with branded hashtags
Creating a branded hashtag can be an effective way to promote your business and drive conversations.
For example, the Raptors’ branded hashtag #WetheNorth lit up during the team’s winning 2019 season. It has universal appeal, and was one of the most-used hashtags by Canadians in the first half of 2019.
Another example is Cheerios and its #CheeriosHeartHuntSweepstakes campaign. This contest encouraging followers to purchase Cheerios products and also spread awareness of the brand by posting photos on social media.
A way to show support for social issues
Using a hashtag that's connected to an issue beyond your brand is a way to move behind an important cause or issue.
For example, #EachforEqual and #IWD2020 were used across social media platforms, including LinkedIn, on International Women's Day.
Brands can also create a branded hashtag that also shows its connection to a social issue.
For example, the Canadian telecommunications company Bell uses the branded hashtag #BellLetsTalk to promote mental health awareness.
Add context to a social media post
On Twitter, you don't have a ton of space to write a caption. You have 280 characters, to be exact.
On Instagram, longer captions aren't always the most effective. Same with Facebook, Pinterest, LinkedIn or any other platform—sometimes less is more.
Using a hashtag can be a simple way to contextualize what you're talking about, without using up valuable characters or writing repetitive captions.
For example, NASA celebrated the 50th anniversary of the Apollo 11 moon landing in July 2019. Using the #Apollo50th hashtag was part of its digital campaign. On World Emoji Day, which is also in July, NASA posted one of the most popular tweets: #Apollo50th #WorldEmojiDay
Hashtags contextualize this creative Tweet, making it clear that NASA is celebrating both the anniversary and taking part in the World Emoji Day conversation.