Immigrant Perspectives: Experiencing a better quality of life in Canada
This is the third and final blog in the Immigrant Perspectives: The Blog Series. In the first part, I blogged about the apprehensions and hopes shared by my fellow writers/bloggers and myself as we waited at the airport to board their flight to Canada. And in the second part, we talked about finding relevant career opportunities as a newcomer. For this final piece, we decided to share our thoughts on what better quality of life means to each of us and further, we explore whether we've been able to find it after moving to Canada.
The 911 emergency
Let me begin by narrating an incident that I witnessed very recently. For context, I live and work downtown in the heart of the city that's popularly known as the Entertainment District. I've been blessed with the luxury of walking to work every day because my office is only a five-minute walk from my residence.
One evening while I was returning home from work, I noticed a man screaming at someone in a car in the middle of the road — very unusual in #Canada. There were many people who had gathered around on the sidewalk and some were even recording the scene on their phones. Out of curiosity, I stopped to see what was happening. While I waited, here's some of the things I saw: a man yelling at the driver asking him to step out of the car, the man's bicycle was lying in the middle of the road, driver refused to step out, continued to stay put and then suddenly hit the accelerator causing the (yelling) man to jump on the hood of the car, the driver then suddenly stopped and the man continued shouting, occasionally asking people around if they've got it all on camera.
I heard people around me saying that they had never seen anything like this in their lives in Canada and that they've lived here for a very long time. In the next 5 minutes, the cops arrived and tried to sort out the matter. Within 5 more minutes, there were additional cops who arrived at the scene along with an ambulance and a firetruck. Very obviously, someone had called 911. I was horrified and amazed at the same time! eventually, I learned that it was just a case of road rage and no one was physically harmed. A man next to me shouted, “Show’s over, everyone, go home.”
People smiling and at that moment, standing there, I thought about how moving to #Canada was one of the best decisions I'd made! In my personal journey to #Canada, I've had many highs and lows and there were times when I really questioned myself if I was doing the right thing. I haven't written or talked about it much. But now that it'll be close to two years since I've moved to #Canada, I do intend to blog about it. My thoughts on this topic can get very deep and philosophical and so I'll leave that for another blog or perhaps, poem.
People have often asked me about my motivations to move to #Canada and like many others, I’ve stated ‘better quality of life’ as one of them. But what does ‘better quality of life’ mean? What does it entail?
Keeping it simple…
My thoughts on ‘better quality of life’ aren’t very different from what my friends have shared. In my mind, I like to keep it simple — to me, better quality of life is what I witnessed on a busy street in the Entertainment District the other day, walking home from work breathing in the fresh air after working for (a very balanced ) eight hours, having the entire evening and weekends to pursue my hobbies or a side project or even travel and explore the city, basking in the moonshine as I drift asleep on spring-summer nights, blissfully watching the pink and purple skies during fall- winter, and most importantly, just being in a constant state of non-chaos! So, as you can tell, I've most certainly found a better quality of life in #Canada.
On that note, we've reached the end of this series. I would like to thank my co-writers for collaborating with me and for being so patient as I took forever to write this final piece.
Through the Immigrant Perspectives Blog Series, I hope that we've been able to provide a glimpse into what it's like to move and settle in #Canada. As writers of this series, we hope you can make all your dreams come true, and see them to fruition in #Canada!
How did you like this series? Comment below and let us know your thoughts. And please look forward to many more interesting blogs and poetry.