How I became a fan of the k-pop group, BTS
In this post, I'm not going to get into the details of who #BTS is or what's the whole concept of #ARMY. I believe there's plenty of content already published online about the k-pop legends that is #BTS (hint: try searching for them on YouTube or Twitter and be prepared to be dazzled!). This post is about my journey as an i-#ARMY (or international fan), how I discovered them, and how they inspire me and my life.
In a universe (or multiverse, if you believe in Bangtan Universe) where #BTS literally has millions of fans, I am just another soul. My story is as special (or ordinary, depending on your perspective) as that of every other #ARMY who discovered #BTS and has been inspired.
I first learned about #BTS when I landed in Toronto in March 2018. It all began mid-April when Toronto was hit by an ice storm. [I promise I'm not adding this for dramatic effect]. I was stuck indoors for an entire weekend without anything to do. I asked for suggestions on my Instagram stories and friends from all over responded with a variety of things. One among them was a new immigrant from Brazil (now, one of my closest friends here) who I'd connected with on Facebook. She suggested watching a k-drama – Scarlet Heart Ryeo. I am a huge American/British sitcom buff but at that time, I had no idea what a “k-drama” even meant. So she educated me that k-dramas are Korean Dramas. I was all like… “okay, let’s do this!”.
I spent the next few days listening to songs by #EXO-CBX specifically and liked quite a few. That drove me to watch some music videos (MVs) by #EXO and started to like their songs too. It was during that time that I first came across #BTS. Many of the articles I read compared EXO with #BTS and based on my limited understanding at that time, I figured that the fandoms of #EXO (EXO-L) and #BTS (#ARMY) were the largest in the world of k- pop.
On May 20, 2018, #BTS won an award for the Best Social Artist at the Billboard Music Awards. I watched that event live on TV from start to end. They performed Fake Love for the first time at the Billboard Awards and I was so mesmerised to see them perform that I cried. It was the first time I was seeing them do a performance after being 'educated' about them, as a group and learning in-depth about each of the members.
I also have a very deep interest in languages. Korean is said to be one of the five most difficult languages ​​to learn for native English speakers (the others being Arabic, Mandarin, Cantonese, and Japanese). The fact that I had to wait for k-drama subtitles to be released before I could watch them (which involved waiting time for dramas that were currently on-air) coupled with the want to gain a deeper understanding of BTS' lyrics motivated me to learn Korean. I started teaching myself Korean through online videos, various mobile apps, and tutorials that I could find. Since January 2019, I hired a tutor to formally learn Korean and I'm completely invested in mastering the language
Personally, although I became an #ARMY and learned about BTS during the Fake Love era, I feel like I've known them and been with them since the beginning. Yes, they are incredibly talented and unique and they produce great music and write equally amazing lyrics BUT what attracts me the most to them is their humility and how they still manage to have their feet on the ground while soaring the skies!
Growing up, my teachers and professors have always my talent for writing biographies/autobiographies. I guess that's why it is my secret wish to be able to do biographies for each of the seven members. I even have the whole concept of how it would look ready in my mind. I know, it's a bit far-fetched but I just wanted to put it out there in the universe. Who knows, maybe, just maybe, someday it might come true?!
If you've made it to the end of this super long post, thank you. So, whether an #ARMY or not, I feel like I should ask you again – “You know BTS?” and I hope, your answer is a very certain – “YES”!
I'm curious to know your stories too! How did you become an #ARMY? I am so excited and happy to be a part of this fandom. Sending purple love to all other #ARMYs out there! And remember… it doesn't matter whether anyone else does or not, Joonie always considers in our galaxy!